## [HOST2019](HOST2019.md)
Link: [[Proceedings](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/conhome/8736108/proceeding)]
[[Conference](http://www.hostsymposium.org/host2019/index2019.php)]
[[Awards](http://www.hostsymposium.org/host_2019awards.php)]  
***
**_Laser-induced Single-bit Faults in Flash Memory: Instructions Corruption on a 32-bit Microcontroller_**  
Colombier, B.; Menu, A.; Dutertre, J.; Moëllic, P.; Rigaud, J.; Danger, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Physical attacks are a known threat posed against secure embedded systems. Notable among these is laser fault injection, which is often considered as the most effective fault injection technique. Indeed, laser fault injection provides a high spatial accuracy, which enables an attacker to induce bit-level faults. However, experience gained from attacking 8-bit targets might not be relevant on more advanced micro-architectures, and these attacks become increasingly challenging on 32-bit microcontrollers. In this article, we show that the flash memory area of a 32-bit microcontroller is sensitive to laser fault injection. These faults occur during the instruction fetch process, hence the stored value remains unaltered. After a thorough characterisation of the induced faults and the associated fault model, we provide detailed examples of bit-level corruption of instructions and demonstrate practical applications in compromising the security of real-life codes. Based on these experimental results, we formulate a hypothesis about the underlying micro-architectural features that explain the observed fault model.</details>

***

**_S℡LAR: A Generic EM Side-Channel Attack Protection through Ground-Up Root-cause Analysis_**  
Das, D.; Nath, M.; Chatterjee, B.; Ghosh, S.; Sen, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The threat of side-channels is becoming increasingly prominent for resource-constrained internet-connected devices. While numerous power side-channel countermeasures have been proposed, a promising approach to protect the non-invasive electromagnetic side-channel attacks has been relatively scarce. Today’s availability of high-resolution electromagnetic (EM) probes mandates the need for a low-overhead solution to protect EM side-channel analysis (SCA) attacks. This work, for the first time, performs a white-box analysis to root-cause the origin of the EM leakage from an integrated circuit. System-level EM simulations with Intel 32 nm CMOS technology interconnect stack, as an example, reveals that the EM leakage from metals above layer 8 can be detected by an external non-invasive attacker with the commercially available state-of-the-art EM probes. Equipped with this ‘white-box’ understanding, this work proposes S℡LAR: Signature aTtenuation Embedded CRYPTO with Low-Level metAl Routing, which is a two-stage solution to eliminate the critical signal radiation from the higher-level metal layers. Firstly, we propose routing the entire cryptographic core within the local lower-level metal layers, whose leakage cannot be picked up by an external attacker. Then, the entire crypto IP is embedded within a Signature Attenuation Hardware (SAH) which in turn suppresses the critical encryption signature before it routes the current signature to the highly radiating top-level metal layers. System-level implementation of the S℡LAR hardware with local lower-level metal routing in TSMC 65 nm CMOS technology, with an AES-128 encryption engine (as an example cryptographic block) operating at 40 MHz, shows that the system remains secure against EM SCA attack even after 1M encryptions, with 67% energy efficiency and 1.23× area overhead compared to the unprotected AES.</details>

***

**_High Capability and Low-Complexity: Novel Fault Detection Scheme for Finite Field Multipliers over GF(2m) based on MSPB_**  
Lee, C.; Xie, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Fault detection is becoming more and more essential to the cryptographic circuits protection (for the purpose of fighting against both natural and malicious faults). While finite field multiplier is regarded as the bottleneck arithmetic unit for cryptosystems such as elliptic curve cryptography, efficient implementation of finite field multiplier with high fault detection capability is still missing in the literature. In this paper, therefore, we propose a novel fault detection scheme for finite field multipliers over GF(2m), where the proposed work aims at obtaining high fault detection performance for finite field multipliers and meanwhile maintain low-complexity implementation. To successfully carry out the proposed design strategy, we have used the modified shifted polynomial basis (MSPB) to represent the field and have conducted three coherent interdependent stages of efforts: (i) a novel 1-bit parity based detection scheme for bit-serial MSPB multiplier is presented after thorough mathematical derivation; (ii) a novel Toeplitz matrix-vector product (TMVP)-based multi-bit parity detection scheme for digit-serial MSPB multiplier is proposed then to obtain both high detection performance and low-complexity implementation; (iii) detailed complexity analysis and comparison show that the proposed designs have significantly better performance over the best of existing ones. For instance, for the bit-serial multipliers, the proposed design (using 1 parity bit) can achieve around 99.49% fault detection performance while the best existing one with 2-bit parity checking scheme achieves only 75.12% fault detection. The proposed scheme, because of its high fault detection capability and low-complexity, can be extended further in many cryptographic applications.</details>

***

**_Extracting Side-Channel Leakage from Round Unrolled Implementations of Lightweight Ciphers_**  
Chawla, N.; Singh, A.; Rahman, N. M.; Kar, M.; Mukhopadhyay, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Energy efficiency and security is a critical requirement for computing at edge nodes. Unrolled architectures for lightweight cryptographic algorithms have been shown to be energy-efficient, providing higher performance while meeting resource constraints. Hardware implementations of unrolled datapaths have also been shown to be resistant to side channel analysis (SCA) attacks due to a reduction in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and an increased complexity in the leakage model. This paper demonstrates optimal leakage models and an improved CFA attack which makes it feasible to extract first-order side-channel leakages from combinational logic in the initial rounds of unrolled datapaths. Several leakage models, targeting initial rounds, are explored and 1-bit hamming weight (HW) based leakage model is shown to be an optimal choice. Additionally, multi-band narrow bandpass filtering techniques in conjunction with correlation frequency analysis (CFA) is demonstrated to improve SNR by up to 4×, attributed to the removal of the misalignment effect in combinational logics and signal isolation. The improved CFA attack is performed on side channel signatures acquired for 7-round unrolled SIMON datapaths, implemented on Sakura-G (XILINX spartan 6, 45nm) based FPGA platform and a 24× reduction in minimum-traces-to-disclose (MTD) for revealing 80% of the key bits is demonstrated with respect to conventional time domain correlation power analysis (CPA). Finally, the proposed method is successfully applied to a fully-unrolled datapath for PRINCE and a parallel round-based datapath for Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm to demonstrate its general applicability.</details>

***

**_A Statistical Fault Analysis Methodology for the Ascon Authenticated Cipher_**  
Ramezanpour, K.; Ampadu, P.; Diehl, W.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Authenticated ciphers are trending in secret key cryptography, since they combine confidentiality, integrity, and authentication into one algorithm, and offer potential efficiencies over the use of separate block ciphers and keyed hashes. Current cryptographic contests and standardization efforts are evaluating authenticated ciphers for weaknesses, to include implementation vulnerabilities, such as fault attacks. In this paper, we analyze fault attacks against the Ascon authenticated cipher, which was selected by CAESAR as the first choice for the lightweight use case. We propose a fault attack technique based on statistical ineffective fault analysis (SIFA) using double-fault injection and key dividing. Faults are injected at two selected S-boxes for every encryption during the last round of permutation in the Ascon Finalization stage. The correct tag values, resulting from ineffective fault inductions, are then used to analyze key hypotheses. The complexity of our attack method is a trade-off between the size of key hypothesis search space and the number of double-fault injections. The sufficient number of correct tag values needed to recover a key subset depends on the bias of fault distributions. We perform experiments on a software implementation of Ascon to show that between 12.5 to 2500 correct tag values (i.e., ineffective faults) are enough for key recovery for highly biased to more uniform fault distributions, respectively.</details>

***

**_ENTT: A Family of Emerging NVM-based Trojan Triggers_**  
Nagarajan, K.; Khan, M. N. I.; Ghosh, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The following topics are dealt with: cryptography; invasive software; logic design; fault diagnosis; reverse engineering; integrated circuit design; system-on-chip; security of data; field programmable gate arrays; security.</details>

***

**_Golden Gates: A New Hybrid Approach for Rapid Hardware Trojan Detection using Testing and Imaging_**  
Shi, Q.; Vashistha, N.; Lu, H.; Shen, H.; Tehranipoor, B.; Woodard, D. L.; Asadizanjani, N.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Hardware Trojans are malicious modifications on integrated circuits (IC), which pose a grave threat to the security of modern military and commercial systems. Existing methods of detecting hardware Trojans are plagued by the inability of detecting all Trojans, reliance on golden chip that might not be available, high time cost, and low accuracy. In this paper, we present Golden Gates, a novel detection method designed to achieve a comparable level of accuracy to full reverse engineering, yet paying only a fraction of its cost in time. The proposed method inserts golden gate circuits (GGC) to achieve superlative accuracy in the classification of all existing gate footprints using rapid scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and backside ultra thinning. Possible attacks against GGC as well as malicious modifications on interconnect layers are discussed and addressed with secure built-in exhaustive test infrastructure. Evaluation with real SEM images demonstrate high classification accuracy and resistance to attacks of the proposed technique.</details>

***

**_Detecting Recycled SoCs by Exploiting Aging Induced Biases in Memory Cells_**  
Guin, U.; Wang, W.; Harper, C.; Singh, A. D.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The rise of recycled ICs being sold as new through the global semiconductor supply chain is a serious threat due to their inferior quality, shorter remaining life, and potentially poorer performance, compared to their authentic counterparts. While solutions, such as on-chip age monitors, have been proposed for new designs, detecting the recycling of older legacy ICs already in use is much harder; no reliable solution currently exists. In this paper, we propose a new and highly effective approach for detecting recycled ICs by exploiting the powerup state of on-chip SRAMs to evaluate the age of the chip. Our methodology does not require the introduction of any special aging detection circuitry, nor the recording and saving of historical circuit performance data as a reference to detect degradation from use. Instead, we exploit the novel observation that in a new unused SRAM, an equal number of cells power up to the 0 and 1 logic states, and also that this distribution becomes skewed in time due to aging in operation. Since SRAMs exist in virtually all systems-on-chip (SoCs), this simple aging detection method is widely applicable to both old and new designs. It is also low cost since does not require any special test equipment. We present experimental results using commercial off-the-shelf SRAM chips to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.</details>

***

**_FLATS: Filling Logic and Testing Spatially for FPGA Authentication and Tamper Detection_**  
Duncan, A.; Skipper, G.; Stern, A.; Nahiyan, A.; Rahman, F.; Lukefahr, A.; Tehranipoor, M.; Swany, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Security-critical field programmable gate array (FPGA) designs traditionally rely on bitstream encryption and hashing to prevent bitstream modifications and provide design authentication. Recent attacks to extract bitstream encryption keys, and research in automated bitstream manipulation tools, have created a class of vulnerabilities involving post-synthesis low-level FPGA editing. Current authentication and tamper (e.g., malicious modification) detection approaches dependent upon hash-based comparison mechanisms and register transfer level safeguards are vulnerable to these post-synthesis exploits. In this paper, we propose FLATS, which provides filling logic and testing spatially to combat such vulnerability. FLATS fills unused lookup tables (LUTs) within the FPGA design and inserts infrared-emitting spatial watermarks into the partially used LUTs at the post-synthesis stage for physical authentication and tamper detection using backside infrared imaging. FLATS takes an existing synthesized design and re-purposes a portion of its LUT initialization to function as a watermark allowing for the detection of changes to the post-synthesis placement and initialization. Experimental results validate the FLATS architecture on a 28nm Xilinx FPGA with less than 12% look-up table utilization overhead and negligible compromises in power and speed.</details>

***

**_QIF-Verilog: Quantitative Information-Flow based Hardware Description Languages for Pre-Silicon Security Assessment_**  
Guo, X.; Dutta, R. G.; He, J.; Tehranipoor, M. M.; Jin, Y.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Hardware vulnerabilities are often due to design mistakes because the designer does not sufficiently consider potential security vulnerabilities at the design stage. As a result, various security solutions have been developed to protect ICs, among which the language-based hardware security verification serves as a promising solution. The verification process will be performed while compiling the HDL of the design. However, similar to other formal verification methods, the language-based approach also suffers from scalability issue. Furthermore, existing solutions either lead to hardware overhead or are not designed for vulnerable or malicious logic detection. To alleviate these challenges, we propose a new language based framework, QIF-Verilog, to evaluate the trustworthiness of a hardware system at register transfer level (RTL). This framework introduces a quantified information flow (QIF) model and extends Verilog type systems to provide more expressiveness in presenting security rules; QIF is capable of checking the security rules given by the hardware designer. Secrets are labeled by the new type and then parsed to data flow, to which a QIF model will be applied. To demonstrate our approach, we design a compiler for QIF-Verilog and perform vulnerability analysis on benchmarks from Trust-Hub and OpenCore. We show that Trojans or design faults that leak information from circuit outputs can be detected automatically, and that our method evaluates the security of the design correctly.</details>

***

**_A Fetching Tale: Covert Communication with the Hardware Prefetcher_**  
Cronin, P.; Yang, C.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Modern processors have employed various methods to increase performance, such as speculative execution, branch prediction, and prefetching. While these enhancements provide excellent performance benefits, many of them also leak confidential information via side channels or can be utilized to communicate surreptitiously via a covert channel. This paper presents a new covert channel within the modern Intel processor, found in the oft-overlooked hardware prefetcher. The discovered covert channel allows two processes scheduled on the same core to communicate without any need to access data that should be mapped to the same cache set. Experimental results on Intel Core i7-6700 show that the channel is able to achieve a 41.6 KBps transmission speed with low error rates. It is also shown that the state-of-the-art side channel and covert channel detection schemes have little impact on this prefetcher-based covert channel.</details>

***

**_Using Power-Anomalies to Counter Evasive Micro-Architectural Attacks in Embedded Systems_**  
Wei, S.; Aysu, A.; Orshansky, M.; Gerstlauer, A.; Tiwari, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>High-assurance embedded systems are deployed for decades and expensive to re-certify – hence, each new attack is an unpatchable problem that can only be detected by monitoring out-of-band channels such as the system’s power trace or electromagnetic emissions. Micro-Architectural attacks, for example, have recently come to prominence since they break all existing software-isolation based security – for example, by hammering memory rows to gain root privileges or by abusing speculative execution and shared hardware to leak secret data. This work is the first to use anomalies in an embedded system’s power trace to detect evasive micro-architectural attacks. To this end, we introduce power-mimicking micro-architectural attacks – including DRAM-rowhammer attacks, side/covert-channel and speculation-driven attacks – to study their evasiveness. We then quantify the operating range of the power-anomalies detector using the Odroid XU3 board – showing that rowhammer attacks cannot evade detection while covert channel and speculation-driven attacks can evade detection but are forced to operate at a 36× and 7× lower bandwidth. Our power-anomaly detector is efficient and can be embedded-of-band into (e.g.,) programmable batteries. While rowhammer, side-channel, and speculation-driven attack defenses require invasive code- and hardware-changes in general-purpose systems, we show that power-anomalies are a simple and effective defense for embedded systems. Power-anomalies can help future-proof embedded systems against vulnerabilities that are likely to emerge as new hardware like phase-change memories and accelerators become mainstream.</details>

***

**_COTSknight: Practical Defense against Cache Timing Channel Attacks using Cache Monitoring and Partitioning Technologies_**  
Yao, F.; Fang, H.; Doroslovački, M.; Venkataramani, G.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Recent studies have shown how adversaries can exploit hardware cache structures to launch information leakage-based attacks. Among these attacks, timing channels are especially worrisome since adversaries communicate simply by modulating the timing of shared resource accesses, and do not leave any physical trace of the communication. Therefore, guarding the system against such attacks is critical. Unfortunately, most existing mitigation mechanisms either require non-trivial hardware modifications and/or incur high runtime overheads.In this paper, we propose COTSknight, a new framework that guards the system against several classes of cache timing channel attacks by making novel use of Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) architectural support for cache resource monitoring and prioritization. We find that the adversary’s attempt to modulate cache access latency during attacks can be captured using cache occupancy patterns. COTSknight leverages efficient signal processing techniques on cache occupancy patterns to determine the potential for timing channel attacks. Once suspicious domains are identified, COTSknight disbands timing channels using dynamic cache partitioning schemes in hardware. We implement a prototype of our COTSknight framework on an Intel Xeon v4 server and evaluate its efficacy extensively using different spatial encoding schemes, as well as serial and parallel implementations of Last Level Cache (LLC) timing channels. Our results show that COTSknight can successfully thwart several classes of timing channel attacks by allocating disjoint LLC ways to malicious processes. Even in benign cache-intensive workloads, we observe a 6% cache partition trigger rate that results in a relatively small 5% worst-case performance degradation. Interestingly, for some benign applications, upon COTSknight’s cache partition, we observe an improved performance by up to 9.2% through eliminating cache interference.</details>

***

**_CoPHEE: Co-processor for Partially Homomorphic Encrypted Execution_**  
Nabeel, M.; Ashraf, M.; Chielle, E.; Tsoutsos, N. G.; Maniatakos, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The recent disclosure of the Spectre and Meltdown side-channel vulnerabilities offers yet another example of modern computer architectures prioritizing performance optimizations over security and privacy. The devastating impact of data leakage, however, emphasizes the need for new processor designs that provide native support for data privacy using cryptography. In this paper, we report on a year-long effort to design, implement, fabricate, and validate CoPHEE: a novel co-processor design that mitigates data leakage risks using partially homomorphic encrypted execution. ASIC designs for encrypted execution impose unique challenges, such as the need for non-traditional arithmetic units (modular inverse, greatest common divisor), very wide datapaths (2048 bits), and the requirement for secure multiplexer units enabling general-purpose execution on encrypted values. Our fully-functional co-processor chip is fabricated in 65nm CMOS technology, and communicates to a main processor via UART. This paper offers an elaborate overview of all steps and design techniques in the ASIC development process, ranging from RTL design to fabrication and validation. We evaluate our co-processor using data-oblivious C++ benchmarks, while our RTL files are available in an open-source repository.</details>

***

**_Efficient and Flexible Low-Power NTT for Lattice-Based Cryptography_**  
Fritzmann, T.; Sepúlveda, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Secure communication is being threatened by the foreseeable breakthrough of quantum computers. When a larger quantum computer is developed, traditional public key cryptography will be broken. Lattice-based cryptography appears as an alternative to protect the communications in the era of quantum computers. However, empowering current electronic devices with these new algorithms poses a challenging problem due to tight performance requirements as well as area and power constraints. Polynomial multiplication is the basic and most computationally intensive operation in lattice-based cryptosystems. The Number Theoretic Transform (NTT) is an attractive technique to perform polynomial multiplication efficiently. So far, previous works have focused on developing fast and compact forward and inverse NTT implementations. However, efficient and low-power NTT design has not been considered before although a low power consumption is crucial for many systems, such as battery-powered Internet of Things (IoT) devices. In this paper, we present the first low-power, fast and secure NTT ASIC design for lattice-based cryptography able to support different NTT parameters. The contribution of this work is three-fold. First, the implementation of a fast NTT through three optimization techniques. Second, utilization of methods for ASIC power minimization in the NTT design. Third, review of previously proposed side-channel attacks and discussion about countermeasures for our design. Our proposed architecture requires only n log(n) clock cycles for the forward and inverse NTT and can be implemented using a cheap single port RAM. The results of our work show that it is possible to decrease the power dissipation by more than 30% at nearly no cost.</details>

***

**_Improving on State Register Identification in Sequential Hardware Reverse Engineering_**  
Brunner, M.; Baehr, J.; Sigl, G.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In the past years, new hardware reverse engineering methods for sequential gate-level netlists have been developed to detect Hardware Trojans and counteract Design Piracy. A critical part of sequential gate-level netlist reverse engineering is the identification of state registers. A promising method to solve this problem, RELIC, proposed by T. Meade et al., is based on input structure similarities of registers to differentiate between state and non-state registers. We propose an improvement to this method, fastRELIC: it outperforms RELIC in terms of speed and computational complexity. A complexity analysis shows the upper bound of $\mathcalO(R^2)$ (R: # registers) for both methods, but a linear lower bound Ω(R) for fastRELIC. Empirical results with fastRELIC provide a speedup of up to 100x. This allowed us to analyze real-life designs with more than 4,000 registers and 50,000 gates.</details>

***

**_On the Impossibility of Approximation-Resilient Circuit Locking_**  
Shamsi, K.; Pan, D. Z.; Jin, Y.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Logic locking, and Integrated Circuit (IC) Camouflaging, are techniques that try to hide the design of an IC from a malicious foundry or end-user by introducing ambiguity into the netlist of the circuit. While over the past decade an array of such techniques have been proposed, their security has been constantly challenged by algorithmic attacks. This may in part be due to a lack of formally defined notions of security in the first place, and hence a lack of security guarantees based on long-standing hardness assumptions.In this paper we take a formal approach. We define the problem of circuit locking (cℒ) as transforming an original circuit to a locked one which is “unintelligable” without a secret key (this can model camouflaging and split-manufacturing in addition to logic locking). We define several notions of security for cℒ under different adversary models. Using long standing results from computational learning theory we show the impossibility of exponentially approximation-resilient locking in the presence of an oracle for large classes of Boolean circuits. We then show how exact-recovery-resiliency and a more relaxed notion of security that we coin “best-possible” approximation-resiliency can be provably guaranteed with polynomial overhead. Our theoretical analysis directly results in stronger attacks and defenses which we demonstrate through experimental results on benchmark circuits.</details>

***

**_Exploiting Proximity Information in a Satisfiability Based Attack Against Split Manufactured Circuits_**  
Chen, S.; Vemuri, R.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Split Manufacturing (SM) was introduced as an effective countermeasure to reverse engineering of integrated circuits and as a potential deterrent to Trojan insertion and overproduction. In SM, some wires, assigned to the back-end-of-line (BEOL) layers and fabricated at a secure facility, are hidden from the attacker. However, proximity information based attacks use physical design hints such as wire-length, combinational cycles and routing directions obtained from the FEOL (front-end-of-line) netlist to recover some or all of the BEOL signals. In addition, a recently proposed satisfiability (SAT) based attack models the BEOL signal recovery problem as a problem of configuring a key-controlled interconnect network and solves for the key values using a SAT solver. While this method can recover 100% of the BEOL signals, it takes impractically long time for large circuits. In this paper, we propose an effective method to exploit proximity information extracted from the FEOL circuit to reduce the size of the interconnection network which models the missing BEOL layers which in turn significantly reduces the size of the resulting SAT problem. This leads to efficient recovery of 100% of the ‘hidden’ BEOL signals even for large circuits. Experimental results using circuits from ISCAS85, ISCAS89 and ITC99 benchmark suites show that the proposed method is up to 80x faster than the SAT-only attack (without proximity information) while maintaining the 100% attack correctness for all combinational and sequential benchmarks.</details>

***

**_SURF: Joint Structural Functional Attack on Logic Locking_**  
Chakraborty, P.; Cruz, J.; Bhunia, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>To help protect hardware Intellectual Property (IP) blocks against piracy and reverse engineering, researchers have proposed various obfuscation techniques that aim at hiding design intent and making black-box usage difficult. A dominant form of obfuscation, referred to as logic locking, relies on the insertion of key gates (e.g., XOR/XNOR) at strategic locations in a design followed by logic synthesis. Recently, it has been shown that such an approach leaves predictable structural signatures, which make them susceptible to machine learning (ML) based structural attacks. These attacks are shown to deobfuscate a design by learning the deterministic nature of transformations incorporated by commercial synthesis tools. They are attractive for unraveling the design intent. However, they may not be able to provide a working design. In this paper, we introduce a novel attack on obfuscation techniques, called Structural Functional (SURF) attack, which, for the first time to our knowledge, accomplishes key extraction through scalable functional analysis while leveraging the output of structural attacks. We have developed complete flow and an automatic tool for the attack, which shows promising results. We are able to retrieve, on average, 90% keybits for obfuscated ISCAS-85 benchmarks (100% in several cases) with > 98% output accuracy. We observe that SURF attack, unlike any known attack, can enable both discovering design intent as well as black-box usage. It is effective for all major variants of logic locking; scalable to large designs; and unlike SAT based attacks, is effective for all design types (e.g., multipliers, where SAT based attacks typically fail).</details>

***

**_Securing AES against Localized EM Attacks through Spatial Randomization of Dataflow_**  
Li, G.; Iyer, V.; Orshansky, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>A localized electromagnetic (EM) attack is a potent threat to security of embedded cryptographic implementations. The attack utilizes high resolution EM probes to localize and exploit information leakage in sub-circuits of a system, providing information not available in traditional EM and power attacks. In this paper, we propose a countermeasure based on randomizing the assignment of sensitive data to parallel datapath components in a high-performance implementation of AES. In contrast to a conventional design where each state register byte is routed to a fixed S-box, a permutation network, controlled by a transient random value, creates a dynamic random mapping between the state registers and the set of S-boxes. This randomization results in a significant reduction of exploitable leakage.We demonstrate the countermeasure’s effectiveness under two attack scenarios: a more powerful attack that assumes a fully controlled access to an attacked implementation for building a priori EM-profiles, and a generic attack based on the black-box model. Spatial randomization leads to a 150X increase of the minimum traces to disclosure (MTD) for the profiled attack and a 3.25X increase of MTD for the black-box model attack.</details>

***

**_MPCircuits: Optimized Circuit Generation for Secure Multi-Party Computation_**  
Riazi, M. S.; Javaheripi, M.; Hussain, S. U.; Koushanfar, F.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Secure Multi-party Computation (MPC) is one of the most influential achievements of modern cryptography: it allows evaluation of an arbitrary function on private inputs from multiple parties without revealing the inputs. A crucial step of utilizing contemporary MPC protocols is to describe the function as a Boolean circuit. While efficient solutions have been proposed for special case of two-party secure computation, the general case of more than two-party is not addressed. This paper proposes MPCircuits, the first automated solution to devise the optimized Boolean circuit representation for any MPC function using hardware synthesis tools with new customized libraries that are scalable to multiple parties. MPCircuits creates a new end-to-end tool-chain to facilitate practical scalable MPC realization. To illustrate the practicality of MPCircuits, we design and implement a set of five circuits that represent real-world MPC problems. Our benchmarks inherently have different computational and communication complexities and are good candidates to evaluate MPC protocols. We also formalize the metrics by which a given protocol can be analyzed. We provide extensive experimental evaluations for these benchmarks; two of which are the first reported solutions in multi-party settings. As our experimental results indicate, MPCircuits reduces the computation time of MPC protocols by up to 4.2×.</details>

***

**_SIA: Secure Intermittent Architecture for Off-the-Shelf Resource-Constrained Microcontrollers_**  
Dinu, D.; Khrishnan, A. S.; Schaumont, P.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Recent advancements in energy-harvesting techniques provide an alternative to batteries for resource-constrained IoT devices and lead to a new computing paradigm, the intermittent computing model. In this model, a software module continues its execution from where it left off when an energy shortage occurred. Enforcing security of an intermittent software module is challenging because its power-off state has to be protected from a malicious adversary in addition to its power-on state, while the security mechanisms put in place must have a low overhead on the performance, resource consumption, and cost of a device.In this paper, we propose SIA (Secure Intermittent Architecture), a security architecture for resource-constrained IoT devices. SIA leverages low-cost security features available in commercial off-the-shelf microcontrollers to protect both the power-on and power-off state of an intermittent software module. Therefore, SIA enables a host of secure intermittent computing applications such as self-attestation, remote attestation, and secure communication. Moreover, our architecture provides confidentiality and integrity guarantees to an intermittent computing module at no cost compared to previous approaches in the literature that impose significant overheads. The salient characteristic of SIA is that it does not require any hardware modifications, and hence, it can be directly applied to existing IoT devices.We implemented and evaluated SIA on a resource-constrained IoT device based on an MSP430 processor. Besides being secure, SIA is simple and efficient. We confirm the feasibility of SIA for resource-constrained IoT devices with experimental results of several intermittent computing applications. Our prototype implementation outperforms by two to three orders of magnitude the secure intermittent computing solution of Suslowicz et al. presented at IGSC 2018.</details>

***

**_RATAFIA: Ransomware Analysis using Time And Frequency Informed Autoencoders_**  
Alam, M.; Bhattacharya, S.; Dutta, S.; Sinha, S.; Mukhopadhyay, D.; Chattopadhyay, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Ransomware can produce direct and controllable economic loss making it one of the most prominent threats in cybersecurity. According to the latest statistics, more than half of the malwares reported in Q1 of 2017 are ransomwares, and there is a potential threat of novice cybercriminals accessing ransomware-as-a-service. The concept of public-key based data kidnapping and subsequent extortion was first introduced in 1996. Since then, variants of ransomware emerged with different cryptosystems and larger key sizes; however, the underlying techniques remained the same. There are several works in the literature which propose a generic framework to detect these ransomwares; though, most of them target ransomwares having specific classes of the encryption algorithm. In addition to it, most of these methods either require Operating System (OS) kernel modification or have high detection latency. In this work, we present a generalized two-step unsupervised detection framework: RATAFIA which uses a Deep Neural Network architecture and Fast Fourier Transformation to develop a highly accurate, fast and reliable solution to ransomware detection using minimal tracepoints. The proposed method does not require any OS kernel modification making it adaptable to most of the modern-day system. We also introduce a special detection module for successful identification of benign disk encryption processes having similar characteristics like malicious ransomware programs but having a different intention. We provide a comprehensive study to evaluate the performance of RATAFIA in the presence of standard benchmark programs, disk encryption and regular high computational processes in the light of software security.</details>

***

**_Using Hardware Software Codesign for Optimised Implementations of High-Speed and Defence in Depth CAESAR Finalists_**  
Tempelmeier, M.; Werner, M.; Sigl, G.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this work, we present five optimised implementations on a Xilinx-Zynq7200 SoC for the high-speed and defence in depth finalists of the CAESAR competition for finding authenticated encryption ciphers. We eliminated the standard interfaces used during the competition. Through optimised interfaces between hardware and software, we were able to get both performance improvements as well as reduction in used programmable logic. The performance of our implementations is comparable to pure hardware implementations, but our implementations are 50% smaller. Compared to pure SW implementations we are 16 times faster. Comparing the different algorithms, we come to the conclusion that Colm allows the fastest implementation.</details>

***

**_In-depth Analysis and Enhancements of RO-PUFs with a Partial Reconfiguration Framework on Xilinx Zynq-7000 SoC FPGAs_**  
Herkle, A.; Mandry, H.; Becker, J.; Ortmanns, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Physical unclonable functions (PUFs) are excellent candidates to generate secret information on-chip without the need for secure storage. Ring-oscillator (RO) based PUFs have been receiving great attention over the years due to their easy design and superior statistical characteristics on field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). Although previous work has improved their statistical measures and provided deeper insights, there are still gaps to be filled. Therefore, this work presents an in-depth analysis of RO-PUFs on Xilinx Zynq-7000 FPGAs with a framework based on partial reconfiguration. This approach allows for full-chip characterization of 100% of the targeted area. Based on the measured data and beforehand estimated routing delay, we will show how to identify and avoid potential bias in the final PUF placement. By utilizing DSP48 slices, an enhanced counter was designed for high-frequency measurements. A second feedback path was added to the ring-oscillators in order to avoid glitches at the counters input. In combination with a reference normalization, the frequency standard deviation could be reduced to 0.0229% at a much shorter evaluation time of 10μs compared to the state-of-the-art, while maintaining the maximum inter-hamming distance. An investigation on the influence of spatial distribution on different RO pairings was performed. The chip variations were found to have a much larger effect on the statistical measures than the difference between logic elements. The measurement data and the framework will be made accessible to interested researchers to provide them with a data basis for further research.</details>

***

