## [PST2018](PST2018.md)
Link: [[Proceedings](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/conhome/8498146/proceeding)]
[[Conference](https://pstnet.ca/)]
Awardなし  
***
**_At Your Own Risk: Shaping Privacy Heuristics for Online Self-disclosure_**  
Ferreyra, N. E. Díaz; Meisy, R.; Heiselz, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Revealing private and sensitive information on Social Network Sites (SNSs) like Facebook is a common practice which sometimes results in unwanted incidents for the users. One approach for helping users to avoid regrettable scenarios is through awareness mechanisms which inform a priori about the potential privacy risks of a self-disclosure act. Privacy heuristics are instruments which describe recurrent regrettable scenarios and can support the generation of privacy awareness. One important component of a heuristic is the group of people who should not access specific private information under a certain privacy risk. However, specifying an exhaustive list of unwanted recipients for a given regrettable scenario can be a tedious task which necessarily demands the user's intervention. In this paper, we introduce an approach based on decision trees to instantiate the audience component of privacy heuristics with minor intervention from the users. We introduce Disclosure- Acceptance Trees, a data structure representative of the audience component of a heuristic and describe a method for their generation out of user-centred privacy preferences.</details>

***

**_Enabling Users to Balance Social Benefit and Privacy in Online Social Networks_**  
De, S. J.; Imine, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Attributes such as interests, workplace and relationship status in an Online Social Network (OSN) profile introduce a user to other OSN users. They can contribute to building new friendships as well as reviving and enhancing existing ones. However, the personal data revealed by the user himself or by his vicinity, i.e., his OSN friends, can also make him vulnerable to many privacy harms such as identity theft, stalking or sexual predation. So users have to carefully select the privacy settings for their profile attributes by keeping in mind the trade-off between privacy and social benefit. In this paper, we propose a usercentric two-phase approach, based on Integer Programming, to choose the right privacy settings. Our model assists the user to understand which privacy harms he can avoid, after tolerating residual risks, given his desired social benefit requirements and suggests the privacy settings he should adopt to achieve the maximum social benefit. Thus, users' choices are based on both privacy risks and benefits, a view supported by the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We have tested our approach on user profiles with varying vicinities and social benefit requirements.</details>

***

**_Privacy-Preserving Architectures with Probabilistic Guaranties_**  
Bavendiek, K.; Adams, R.; Schupp, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Violations of the privacy of users can happen if data protection is not a fundamental part of the development process of a software system. The principle of Privacy by Design (PbD) therefore stipulates the consideration of privacy as a default feature. We have developed an integrated tool environment called CAPVerDE that provides a formal description language of software architectures and helps a designer by automatically verifying data minimization properties at the architectural level. Our logic includes probabilistic properties that introduce uncer- tainty into the architectures. These properties can be used to model attack scenarios that rely on chance. This paper presents the logic of the description language of CAPVerDE and illustrates the verification process by applying it to a smart energy metering scenario.</details>

***

**_Exploring User Behavior and Cybersecurity Knowledge - An experimental study in Online Shopping_**  
Haddad, G. E.; Shahab, A.; Aïmeur, E.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The present study explores the relationship between cybersecurity knowledge, online behavior, and risk perception. To simulate an online shopping experience, we invited participants to access our newly designed website and answer a set of questions to evaluate their level of cybersecurity knowledge. The experiment identifies multiple subsequent stages that enhance different features of the social online shopping literature by offering different tasks. The online activities provided on our website play the role of essential vital enablers to interact with the user such as giving the buyer the chance to earn more credits in exchange for private information, saving the virtual credit card information and selecting a specific shopping scenario. Our outcomes highlight the significance of engaging individuals with cybersecurity and provide an analysis of consumer profiling and practice in an online shopping context. Moreover, our findings lead to two sets of actions: reducing the perceived risk of cybercrime in online activities by increasing the level of knowledge in cybersecurity and evolving user behavior when spotting a high level of privacy concern.</details>

***

**_The Possibility of Matrix Decomposition as Anonymization and Evaluation for Time-sequence Data_**  
Mimoto, T.; Kiyomoto, S.; Hidano, S.; Basu, A.; Miyaji, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Time-sequence data is high dimensional and con- tains a lot of information, which can be utilized in various fields, such as insurance, finance, and advertising. Personal data including time-sequence data is often converted to anonymized datasets, which need to strike a balance between both privacy and utility. In this paper, we consider low-rank matrix decomposition as one of the anonymization methods and evaluate its efficiency. We convert time-sequence datasets to matrices and evaluate both privacy and utility. The record IDs in time-sequence data are changed at regular intervals to reduce re-identification risk. However, since individuals tend to behave in a similar fashion over periods of time, there remains a risk of record linkage even if record IDs are different. Hence, we evaluate the re- identification and linkage risks as privacy risks of time-sequence data. Our experimental results show that matrix decomposition is a viable anonymization method and it can achieve better utility than existing anonymization methods.</details>

***

**_Location Privacy and Utility in Geo-social Networks: Survey and Research Challenges_**  
Riaz, Z.; Dürr, F.; Rothermel, K.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Location information sharing on popular online social networking platforms like Facebook and Foursquare brings mutual benefits for the users of these platforms (e.g., free locationbased services) as well as the platform providers (e.g., locationbased businesses). An obvious problem however that impedes these mutual benefits are privacy concerns related to location data of users, which also curb their active participation. In this paper, we analyze the role of existing location privacypreserving mechanisms in minimizing this mutual loss of benefits. Our analysis reveals that most existing mechanisms either ignore social platform related user-privacy concerns or they disregard location data-quality related demands of the platform providers. Moreover, we also point out concrete research gaps and implementation issues related to existing privacy mechanisms.</details>

***

**_Privacy Preserving Probabilistic Record Linkage Without Trusted Third Party_**  
Lazrig, I.; Ong, T. C.; Ray, I.; Ray, I.; Jiang, X.; Vaidya, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>For the purpose of research, organizations often need to share and link data belonging to a single individual while protecting her privacy. This problem, referred to as privacy preserving record linkage (PPRL), has been investigated by researchers. Most PPRL works focus on deterministic linkages where the identifying attributes of two records must be equal in order to declare them to belong to the same individual. Moreover, most of these methods require the active participation of a trusted third party (TTP). If this TTP is compromised, it makes the data from all participating parties vulnerable to information leakage. The proposed work improves upon the existing methods in two ways. First, we propose a protocol which does not require two records to have an exact match on identifying attributes in order to be declared as belonging to the same individual. Second, we investigate probabilistic PPRL in the two-party setting without resorting to any TTP. We use Bloom filters for probabilistic matching and Yao's garbled circuit to perform the computation needed for the matching on encrypted data. To alleviate the computation and communication overhead of Yao's protocol, we leverage data blocking methods and optimize the computation. We provide a security proof of our method and experimentally evaluate the performance gained on large benchmark datasets.</details>

***

**_Approximating Robust Linear Regression With An Integral Privacy Guarantee_**  
Senavirathne, N.; Torra, V.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Most of the privacy-preserving techniques suffer from an inevitable utility loss due to different perturbations carried out on the input data or the models in order to gain privacy. When it comes to machine learning (ML) based prediction models, accuracy is the key criterion for model selection. Thus, an accuracy loss due to privacy implementations is undesirable.The motivation of this work, is to implement the privacy model “integral privacy” and to evaluate its eligibility as a technique for machine learning model selection while preserving model utility. In this paper, a linear regression approximation method is implemented based on integral privacy which ensures high accuracy and robustness while maintaining a degree of privacy for ML models. The proposed method uses a re-sampling based estimator to construct linear regression model which is coupled with a rounding based data discretization method to support integral privacy principles. The implementation is evaluated in comparison with differential privacy in terms of privacy, accuracy and robustness of the output ML models. In comparison, integral privacy based solution provides a better solution with respect to the above criteria.</details>

***

**_On Sybil Classification in Online Social Networks Using Only Structural Features_**  
Mulamba, D.; Ray, I.; Ray, I.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Sybil attack is a problem that seriously affects Online Social Networks (OSNs). These attacks are made possible by the openness of OSN platforms that allows an attacker to create multiple fake accounts, called Sybils, which are then used to compromise the underlining trust pinnings of the OSN. Early Sybil account detection mechanisms involved classification of users into benign and malicious based on various attributes collected from the user profiles. One challenge affecting these classification methods is that user attributes can often be in-complete or inaccurate. In addition, these classification methods can be evaded by sophisticated attackers. More importantly, user profiles can often reveal sensitive user information that can potentially be misused causing privacy violation. In this work, we propose a Sybil detection method that is based on the classification of users into malicious and benign based on the inherent topology or structure of the underlining OSN graph. We propose a new set of structural features for a graph. Using this new feature set, we perform several experiments on both synthetic as well as real-world OSN data. Our results show that the proposed detection method is very effective in correctly classifying Sybil accounts without running the risk of being evaded by a sophisticated attacker and without compromising privacy of users.</details>

***

**_Crossing Cross-Domain Paths in the Current Web_**  
Ruohonen, J.; Salovaara, J.; Leppänen, V.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The loading of resources from third-parties has evoked new security and privacy concerns about the current world wide web. Building on the concepts of forced and implicit trust, this paper examines cross-domain transmission control protocol (TCP) connections that are initiated to domains other than the domain queried with a web browser. The dataset covers nearly ten thousand domains and over three hundred thousand TCP connections initiated by querying popular Finnish websites and globally popular sites. According to the results, (i) cross-domain connections are extremely common in the current Web. (ii) Most of these transmit encrypted content, although mixed content delivery is relatively common; many of the cross-domain connections deliver unencrypted content at the same time. (iii) Many of the cross-domain connections are initiated to known web advertisement domains, but a much larger share traces to social media platforms and cloud infrastructures. Finally, (iv) the results differ slightly between the Finnish web sites sampled and the globally popular sites. With these results, the paper contributes to the ongoing work for better understanding cross-domain connections and dependencies in the world wide web.</details>

***

**_How-to Express Explicit and Auditable Consent_**  
Carvalho, A. C.; Martins, R.; Antunes, L.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>While the importance of consent request in today's society is increasing, specially online as a lawful basis for the processing of personal data, no detailed analysis of current technological solutions is available. In this work, we describe the existing technological solutions to express online consent in a positive fashion, including all the properties that an online solution should hold. We conclude by offering a risk proposal based on the linear combination of the rating of each one of these properties. We observe a low agreement between observers, highlighting that it is not easy to fulfill the requirements of the GDPR and showing that these studies are important when performing a Data Protection Impact Assessment. To overcome the low agreement, we propose the median of the observers' rate.</details>

***

**_Privacy-Preserving Subgraph Checking_**  
Wuller, S.; Assadsolimani, B.; Meyer, U.; Wetzel, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>A subgraph check is a variant of the common subgraph matching-operating on a reference and a test graph- determining whether a test graph is a subgraph of the reference graph. In this paper, we present two novel privacy-preserving subgraph checking protocols. In our first protocol, all subgraph checks are carried out independently of each other. The second protocol allows for a substantial performance improvement over the straight-forward approach of the first protocol by exploiting structural similarities among the test graphs to be checked against the reference graph.</details>

***

**_CHARIOT: Cloud-Assisted Access Control for the Internet of Things_**  
Gritti, C.; Önen, M.; Molva, R.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The Internet of Things (IoT) technology has ex- panded widely across the world, promising new data management opportunities for industries, companies and individuals in different sectors, such as health services or transport logistics. The exponentially increasing number of IoT devices, their origin diversity, their limited capabilities in terms of resources, as well as the ever-increasing amount of data, raise new challenges for security and privacy protection, precluding traditional access control solutions to be integrated to this new environment. In this paper, we propose a reliable, server-aided, policy-based access control mechanism, named CHARIOT, that enables an IoT platform to verify credentials of different devices requesting access to the data stored within it. CHARIOT enables IoT devices to authenticate themselves to the platform without compromising their privacy by using attribute-based signatures. Our solution also allows secure delegation of costly computational operations to a cloud server, hence relieving the workload at IoT devices' side.</details>

***

**_Parallel Linear Regression on Encrypted Data_**  
Morshed, T.; Alhadidi, D.; Mohammed, N.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In recent years, the advent of machine learning models on private data has been remarkable. However, in-corporating machine learning techniques to healthcare data is pretty challenging due to the privacy issues of sensitive data which restricts data sharing in plaintext. Ensuring the privacy of individuals in healthcare datasets while constructing a machine learning model is a challenging research problem today. This paper proposes an approximate mathematical model utilizing linear regression on homomorphically encrypted data to predict the disease association of an individual. Furthermore, as these encryption schemes are not efficient considering computation time, we incorporate the multi-core parallelism to make the framework realistic. We experimentally evaluate the performance of the proposed methods and report on the experimental results.</details>

***

**_Analysis and Evaluation of Syntactic Privacy Notions and Games_**  
Ankele, R.; Simpson, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Previous contributions have established a framework of privacy games that supports the representation of syntactic privacy notions such as anonymity, unlinkability, pseudonymity and unobservablility in the form of games. The intention is that, via such abstractions, the understanding of, and relationships between, privacy notions can be clarified. Further, an unambiguous understanding of adversarial actions is given. Yet, without any practical context, the potential benefits of these notions and games may be incomprehensible to system designers and software developers. We utilise these games in a case study based on recommender systems. Consequently, we show that the game-based definitions have the potential to interconnect privacy implications and can be utilised to reason about privacy.</details>

***

**_Mitigating Client Subnet Leakage in DNS Queries_**  
Pan, L.; Zhang, X.; Hu, A.; Yuchi, X.; Wang, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Many authoritative servers today return different responses based on the perceived geographical location of the resolvers' IP addresses, to bring the content as close to the users as possible. RFC7871 proposes an EDNS Client Subnet (ECS) extension to carry part of the client's IP address in the DNS packets for authoritative server. Compared with the resolver's IP address in the DNS packets, ECS can help the authoritative server to guess the user's geographical location more precisely. However, ECS raises some privacy concerns since it leaks client's subnet information on the resolution path to the authoritative server. In order to find a right balance between privacy improvement and end-user experience optimization, in this paper we introduce an EDNS ISP Location (EIL) extension to address the client subnet leakage problem of ECS. Note that EIL can reduce the dependence on high quality IP geolocation database, while this is crucial to ensure DNS response's accuracy in ECS.</details>

***

**_Evaluation and Development of Onomatopoeia CAPTCHAs_**  
Yamada, M.; Shigeno, R.; Kikuchi, H.; Sakamoto, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this study, we propose a new </details>

***

**_Extended Abstract: A Review of Biometric Traits with Insight into Vein Pattern Recognition_**  
Varastehpour, S.; Sharifzadeh, H.; Ardekani, I.; Sarrafzadeh, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Authentication methods based on some human traits, including fingerprint, face, iris, and palmprint, have been developed significantly, and currently, they are mature enough which have been reliably considered for person identification purposes. Recently, as a new research area, few methods based on non-facial skin features such as vein patterns have been developed. This extended abstract briefly explores some key features of biometric traits whereas vein pattern recognition is also outlined.</details>

***

**_Towards Improving Privacy Control for Smart Homes: A Privacy Decision Framework_**  
Keshavarz, M.; Anwar, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In smart homes, users do not have enough options to express their privacy preferences and decide who can see their data, when their data can be used, and which part of data they want to share and which part they do not want. We propose a framework that uses machine learning algorithms to determine for what purpose, to whom and with what level of details the information will be shared.</details>

***

**_Extended Abstract: Ethical and Privacy Considerations in Cybersecurity_**  
Davis, B.; Whitfield, C.; Anwar, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Several studies have examined ethical and privacy concerns in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and cybersecurity research. However, the approaches to assure proper ethics and privacy standards in cybersecurity research are not adequately studied. This paper introduces a framework to evaluate the ethical considerations of cybersecurity research studies. Our framework was used to evaluate the ethical and privacy considerations for the technical papers published in the proceedings of SOUPS 2017. Our research provides future researchers with methods for conducting ethically sound cybersecurity research.</details>

***

**_Weak and Strong Deniable Authenticated Encryption: On their Relationship and Applications_**  
Rasmussen, K.; Gasti, P.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Consider a scenario in which a whistleblower (Alice) would like to disclose confidential documents to ajournalist (Bob). Bob wants to verify that the messages he receives are really from Alice; at the same time, Alice does not want to be implicated if Bob is later compelled to (or decides to) disclose her messages, together with his secret key and any other relevant secret information. To fulfill these requirements, Alice and Bob can use a deniable authenticated encryption scheme. In this paper we formalize the notions of strong- and weak deniable authentication, and discuss the relationship between these definitions. We show that Bob can still securely authenticate messages from Alice after all his secret information is revealed to the adversary, but only when using a weakly (but not strongly) deniable scheme. We refer to this ability as post-compromise message authentication. We present two efficient encryption schemes that provide deniable authentication. Both schemes incur overhead similar to that of non-deniable schemes. As such, they are suitable not only when deniability is needed, but also as general encryption tools. We provide details of the encryption, decryption, forgery and key- generation algorithms, and formally prove that our schemes are secure with respect to confidentiality, data authentication, and strong- and weak deniable authentication.</details>

***

**_Exploring the Impact of Password Dataset Distribution on Guessing_**  
Murray, H.; Malone, D.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Leaks from password datasets are a regular occur-rence. An organization may defend a leak with reassurances that just a small subset of passwords were taken. In this paper we show that the leak of a relatively small number of text-based passwords from an organizations' stored dataset can lead to a further large collection of users being compromised. Taking a sample of passwords from a given dataset of passwords we exploit the knowledge we gain of the distribution to guess other samples from the same dataset. We show theoretically and empirically that the distribution of passwords in the sample follows the same distribution as the passwords in the whole dataset. We propose a function that measures the ability of one distribution to estimate another. Leveraging this we show that a sample of passwords leaked from a given dataset, will compromise the remaining passwords in that dataset better than a sample leaked from another source.</details>

***

**_A Family of Droids-Android Malware Detection via Behavioral Modeling: Static vs Dynamic Analysis_**  
Onwuzurike, L.; Almeida, M.; Mariconti, E.; Blackburn, J.; Stringhini, G.; Cristofaro, E. De
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Following the increasing popularity of the mobile ecosystem, cybercriminals have increasingly targeted mobile ecosystems, designing and distributing malicious apps that steal information or cause harm to the device's owner. Aiming to counter them, detection techniques based on either static or dynamic analysis that model Android malware, have been proposed. While the pros and cons of these analysis techniques are known, they are usually compared in the context of their limitations e.g., static analysis is not able to capture runtime behaviors, full code coverage is usually not achieved during dynamic analysis, etc. Whereas, in this paper, we analyze the performance of static and dynamic analysis methods in the detection of Android malware and attempt to compare them in terms of their detection performance, using the same modeling approach.To this end, we build on MAMADROID, a state-of-the-art detection system that relies on static analysis to create a behavioral model from the sequences of abstracted API calls. Then, aiming to apply the same technique in a dynamic analysis setting, we modify CHIMP, a platform recently proposed to crowdsource human inputs for app testing, in order to extract API calls' sequences from the traces produced while executing the app on a CHIMP virtual device. We call this system AUNTIEDROID and instantiate it by using both automated (Monkey) and usergenerated inputs. We find that combining both static and dynamic analysis yields the best performance, with $F -$measure reaching 0.92. We also show that static analysis is at least as effective as dynamic analysis, depending on how apps are stimulated during execution, and investigate the reasons for inconsistent misclassifications across methods.</details>

***

**_Mining Sequential Patterns from Outsourced Data via Encryption Switching_**  
Tillem, G.; Erkin, Z.; Lagendijk, R. L.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The increasing demand for data mining in business intelligence has led to a significant growth in the adoption of data mining as a service paradigm which enables companies to outsource their data and mining tasks to a cloud service provider. Despite the popularity of the paradigm, the companies hesitate to enable the cloud providers' access to their data considering customer privacy and intellectual property. In this paper, we propose a privacy-preserving two-party protocol which aims to mine direct sequential patterns from outsourced protected data. We focus on direct sequential pattern mining since it is a widely used primitive in business process analysis. Considering the accuracy and confidentiality, we choose encryption over statistical methods for data protection and processing. To be able to process the encrypted data, we adopt a homomorphic encryption scheme, ElGamal cryptosystem. The novelty of our scheme is that it introduces an encryption switching method that enables us to use both multiplicative and additive homomorphism on ElGamal cryptosystem. The results of our analyses show that our protocol is more efficient than the state-of-the-art proposals in terms of computational cost with a similar communication cost.</details>

***

**_Detecting Cryptomining Using Dynamic Analysis_**  
Carlin, D.; O’Kane, P.; Sezer, S.; Burgess, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>With the rise in worth and popularity of cryptocurrencies, a new opportunity for criminal gain is being exploited and with little currently offered in the way of defence. The cost of mining (i.e., earning cryptocurrency through CPU-intensive calculations that underpin the blockchain technology) can be prohibitively expensive, with hardware costs and electrical overheads previously offering a loss compared to the cryptocurrency gained. Off-loading these costs along a distributed network of machines via malware offers an instantly profitable scenario, though standard Anti-virus (AV) products offer some defences against file-based threats. However, newer fileless malicious attacks, occurring through the browser on seemingly legitimate websites, can easily evade detection and surreptitiously engage the victim machine in computationally-expensive cryptomining (cryptojacking). With no current academic literature on the dynamic opcode analysis of cryptomining, to the best of our knowledge, we present the first such experimental study. Indeed, this is the first such work presenting opcode analysis on non-executable files. Our results show that browser-based cryptomining within our dataset can be detected by dynamic opcode analysis, with accuracies of up to 100%. Further to this, our model can distinguish between cryptomining sites, weaponized benign sites, de-weaponized cryptomining sites and real world benign sites. As it is process-based, our technique offers an opportunity to rapidly detect, prevent and mitigate such attacks, a novel contribution which should encourage further future work.</details>

***

**_Andro-Simnet: Android Malware Family Classification using Social Network Analysis_**  
Kim, H. M.; Song, H. M.; Seo, J. W.; Kim, H. K.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>While the rapid adaptation of mobile devices changes our daily life more conveniently, the threat derived from malware is also increased. There are lots of research to detect malware to protect mobile devices, but most of them adopt only signature-based malware detection method that can be easily bypassed by polymorphic and metamorphic malware. To detect malware and its variants, it is essential to adopt behavior-based detection for efficient malware classification. This paper presents a system that classifies malware by using common behavioral characteristics along with malware families. We measure the similarity between malware families with carefully chosen features commonly appeared in the same family. With the proposed similarity measure, we can classify malware by malware's attack behavior pattern and tactical characteristics. Also, we apply community detection algorithm to increase the modularity within each malware family network aggregation. To maintain high classification accuracy, we propose a process to derive the optimal weights of the selected features in the proposed similarity measure. During this process, we find out which features are significant for representing the similarity between malware samples. Finally, we provide an intuitive graph visualization of malware samples which is helpful to understand the distribution and likeness of the malware networks. In the experiment, the proposed system achieved 97% accuracy for malware classification and 95% accuracy for prediction by K-fold cross-validation using the real malware dataset.</details>

***

**_Secure Compression and Pattern Matching Based on Burrows-Wheeler Transform_**  
Zeng, G.; He, M.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, J.; Chen, Y.; Yiu, S. M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Searchable compressed data structures (e.g.Burrows-Wheeler Transform) enable one to create a memory-efficient index for large datasets such as human genomes. On the other hand, storing such an index in a third-party server, e.g., cloud, may have the privacy and confidentiality issues. An open problem in the community is to construct a secure variant of such a data structure. This problem is challenging as most of the existing works were shown to be insecure and none of them is able to perform pattern matching. In this paper, we provide the first solution based on Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT) to solve this problem (our scheme can do both compression and pattern matching). A new security definition, called isomophism-restricted IND-CPA security, is proposed. We show that our scheme is secure under this definition and our scheme is practical by experiments.</details>

***

**_Automated Proofs of Signatures using Bilinear Pairings_**  
Eswaraiah, G.; Vishwanathan, R.; Nedza, D.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this paper, we extend an automated proof-generation tool, AutoG& P with new axioms and formalizations to support composite data types and q-type assumptions, which in turn can be used to automate pairing-based signature schemes. AutoG& P due to Barthe et at. was designed as a tool to automate proofs of cryptographic primitives based on bilinear pairings in the standard model, but the initial version only supported a limited set of data types, limited pairing-based assumptions, and only provided automated proofs for encryption schemes, notably the Boneh-Boyen identity-based encryption scheme. As examples of our extensions, we provide automated proofs for the Boneh-Boyen pairing-based signature schemes under the well-known and widely-used notion of signature security: existential unforgeability under chosen message attacks in the standard model, and the Boneh-Boyen-Shacham group signature scheme, under standard notions of group signature security: anonymity and traceability.</details>

***

**_Timing is Almost Everything: Realistic Evaluation of the Very Short Intermittent DDoS Attacks_**  
Park, J.; Nyang, D.; Mohaisen, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) is a big threat to the security and stability of Internet-based services today. Among the recent advanced application-layer DDoS attacks, the Very Short Intermittent DDoS (VSI-DDoS) is the attack, which can bypass existing detection systems and significantly degrade the QoS experienced by users of web services. However, in order for the VSI-DDoS attack to work effectively, bots participating in the attack should be tightly synchronized, an assumption that is difficult to be met in reality. In this paper, we conducted a quantitative analysis to understand how a minimal deviation from perfect synchronization in botnets affects the performance and effectiveness of the VSI-DDoS attack. We found that VSI-DDoS became substantially less effective. That is, it lost 85.7% in terms of effectiveness under about 90ms synchronization inaccuracy, which is a very small inaccuracy under normal network conditions.</details>

***

**_Industry-Wide Analysis of Open Source Security_**  
Zhang, Y.; Malhotra, B.; Chen, C.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Open Source Software (OSS) has become de-facto industry standard for developing software solutions and services. Either it's Telecommunication industry or Aerospace or Health Care or Media and Entertainment, OSS is widely used because of its benefits and community based support. Regardless of the benefits, OSS continues to attract security vulnerabilities due to its inherent open nature. Because of the security vulnerabilities industries need to constantly evaluate security posture of OSS projects. Unfortunately, there are no readily available studies that have analyzed the security posture of various OSS projects with respect to various industries. This is the precise goal of this research, which not only analyzes the popularity of various OSS projects among various industries but also provides insights into the security vulnerabilities and their impact on various industries that consume those OSS projects. Toward that end this paper makes the following contributions. (1) We evaluated the OSS usage trends across various categories of industries, which has never been attempted before. (2) We proposed two metrics to quantify the impact of security vulnerabilities in OSS projects that are used by various categories of industries. (3) We conducted a detailed set of analysis using real datasets to evaluate the proposed metrics and their impact on various industries. We have concluded this paper with some future.</details>

***

**_Unmasking Android Obfuscation Tools Using Spatial Analysis_**  
Kaur, R.; Ning, Y.; Gonzalez, H.; Stakhanova, N.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Android has become one of the most popular mo-bile device operating systems. Indeed, its security issues have attracted a lot of attention. One of the major security concerns is the use of obfuscation strategies to evade anti-malware solutions. Android malware authors are increasingly using code obfuscation tools and techniques to hide malicious code. In this work, we in- troduce a novel fingerprinting approach for Android obfuscation tools based on spatial analysis. We investigate first-order and second-order statistical features to analyze spatial distribution of pixels representing Android binary images. With our approach, we are able to achieve nearly 90% accuracy in fingerprinting several obfuscation tools with specific configuration options.</details>

***

**_Managing Publicly Known Security Vulnerabilities in Software Systems_**  
Mahrous, H.; Malhotra, B.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Monitoring security vulnerabilities (weaknesses in software systems) is very important for organizations. Third parties such as National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) regularly publish vulnerability reports to secure national networks and protect business interests. The main challenge in this context is that the software systems against which the vulnerabilities are published are typically known differently to various stake holders that consume those vulnerable software systems. For instance, an organization may refer to one of its software components as my.program.js, however NIST may report a vulnerability on that particular software component as $org\lrcorner Jrogram\lrcorner S$ according to their standards. Thousands of vulnerabilities are reported against millions of software compo- nents every year, which makes this problem very complex. In this paper, we propose a system that matches imprecise pieces of data to track vulnerabilities in software systems. The heart of the proposed system is a text mining technique that is capable of searching vulnerabilities from large volumes of data regardless of how the software systems are named. Our extensive experiments with real datasets reveal that the proposed system is capable of capturing vulnerabilities with more than 90% accuracy.</details>

***

**_Demonstrating Cyber-Physical Attacks and Defense for Synchrophasor Technology in Smart Grid_**  
Khan, R.; McLaughlin, K.; Laverty, J. H. D.; David, H.; Sezer, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Synchrophasor technology is used for real-time control and monitoring in smart grid. Previous works in literature identified critical vulnerabilities in IEEE C37.118.2 synchrophasor communication standard. To protect synchrophasor-based systems, stealthy cyber-attacks and effective defense mechanisms still need to be investigated.This paper investigates how an attacker can develop a custom tool to execute stealthy man-in-the-middle attacks against synchrophasor devices. In particular, four different types of attack capabilities have been demonstrated in a real synchrophasor-based synchronous islanding testbed in laboratory: (i) command injection attack, (ii) packet drop attack, (iii) replay attack and (iv) stealthy data manipulation attack. With deep technical understanding of the attack capabilities and potential physical impacts, this paper also develops and tests a distributed Intrusion Detection System (IDS) following NIST recommendations. The functionalities of the proposed IDS have been validated in the testbed for detecting aforementioned cyber-attacks. The paper identified that a distributed IDS with decentralized decision making capability and the ability to learn system behavior could effectively detect stealthy malicious activities and improve synchrophasor network security.</details>

***

**_xLED: Covert Data Exfiltration from Air-Gapped Networks via Switch and Router LEDs_**  
Guri, M.; Zadov, B.; Daidakulov, A.; Elovici, Y.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>An air-gapped network is a type of IT network that is separated from the Internet - physically - due to the sensitive information it stores. Even if such a network is compromised with a malware, the hermetic isolation from the Internet prevents an attacker from leaking out any data - thanks to the lack of connectivity. In this paper we show how attackers can covertly leak sensitive data from air-gapped networks via the row of status LEDs on networking equipment such as LAN switches and routers. Although it is known that some network equipment emanates optical signals correlated with the information being processed by the device (`side-channel'), malware controlling the status LEDs to carry any type of data (`covert-channel') has never studied before. Sensitive data can be covertly encoded over the blinking of the LEDs and received by remote cameras and optical sensors. A malicious code is executed in a compromised LAN switch or router allowing the attacker direct, low-level control of the LEDs. We provide the technical background on the internal architecture of switches and routers at both the hardware and software level which enables these attacks. We present different modulation and encoding schemas, along with a transmission protocol. We implement prototypes of the malware and discuss its design and implementation. We tested various receivers including remote cameras, security cameras, smartphone cameras, and optical sensors, and discuss detection and prevention countermeasures. Our experiments show that sensitive data can be covertly leaked via the status LEDs of switches and routers at bit rates of 1 bit/sec to more than 2000 bit/sec per LED.</details>

***

**_Hide-and-Seek with Website Identity Information_**  
Stojmenoviæ, M.; Biddle, R.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Online security involves user decision-making, so it is important to support users in this process. One important decision users face involves website identity, in order to avoid fraudulent sites. Sophisticated fraudulent sites avoid detection by using familiar names and replicated appearance, and they are active too briefly for safe browsing services to be effective. In these circumstances, website certificate identity information can help users detect fraudulent cites. In this paper we report on two studies to assess how well users are supported in this process by the Google Chrome browser. We first worked with usability evaluators and then conducted a study with real users. 70% of participants chose a fraudulent website before a 5min tutorial. After it, 100% correctly identified the proper website. With a little support, users were able to understand and apply certificate information. We suggest that a little better design, and some brief education, would benefit users.</details>

***

**_Mitigating CSRF attacks on OAuth 2.0 Systems_**  
Li, W.; Mitchell, C. J.; Chen, T.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Many millions of users routinely use Google, Facebook and Microsoft to log in to websites supporting OAuth 2.0 and/or OpenID Connect. The security of OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect is therefore of critical importance. Unfortunately, as previous studies have shown, real-world implementations of both schemes are often vulnerable to attack, and in particular to crosssite request forgery (CSRF) attacks. In this paper we propose a new and practical technique which can be used to mitigate CSRF attacks against both OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect. Index Terms-OAuth 2.0, OpenID Connect, CSRF.</details>

***

**_GIDS: GAN based Intrusion Detection System for In-Vehicle Network_**  
Seo, E.; Song, H. M.; Kim, H. K.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>A Controller Area Network (CAN) bus in the vehicles is an efficient standard bus enabling communication between all Electronic Control Units (ECU). However, CAN bus is not enough to protect itself because of lack of security features. To detect suspicious network connections effectively, the intrusion detection system (IDS) is strongly required. Unlike the traditional IDS for Internet, there are small number of known attack signatures for vehicle networks. Also, IDS for vehicle requires high accuracy because any false-positive error can seriously affect the safety of the driver. To solve this problem, we propose a novel IDS model for in-vehicle networks, GIDS (GAN based Intrusion Detection System) using deep-learning model, Generative Adversarial Nets. GIDS can learn to detect unknown attacks using only normal data. As experiment result, GIDS shows high detection accuracy for four unknown attacks.</details>

***

**_EagleEye: A Novel Visual Anomaly Detection Method_**  
Sharafaldin, I.; Ghorbani, A. A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We propose a novel visualization technique (Eagle-Eye) for intrusion detection, which visualizes a host as a commu- nity of system call traces in two-dimensional space. The goal of EagleEye is to visually cluster the system call traces. Although human eyes can easily perceive anomalies using EagleEye view, we propose two different methods called SAM and CPM that use the concept of data depth to help administrators distinguish between normal and abnormal behaviors. Our experimental results conducted on Australian Defence Force Academy Linux Dataset (ADFA-LD), which is a modern system calls dataset that includes new exploits and attacks on various programs, show EagleEye's efficiency in detecting diverse exploits and attacks.</details>

***

**_Using AP-TED to Detect Phishing Attack Variations_**  
Page, S. Le; Bochmann, G. v; Cui, Q.; Flood, J.; Jourdan, G.; Onut, I.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>It is well known that many phishing attacks are variations of previous phishing attacks. We evaluate here the feasibility of applying Pawlik and Augsten's recent implementation of Tree Edit Distance (AP-TED) calculations as a way to compare DOMs and identify similar phishing attack instances. We also compare this tree method with an existing method that uses the distance between tag vectors to quantity similarity between phishing sites. We observe that no single distance method perfectly detects all types of phishing attack variations. We find that the tree method is more demanding for computing equipment, but it better discriminates the similarity with known attacks. We also introduce a method to reduce the volume of calculations by 99.4% when calculating pairwise edit distance on trees with respect to AP-TED calculations on all data.</details>

***

**_An Implementation and Evaluation of Progressive Authentication Using Multiple Level Pattern Locks_**  
Aiken, W.; Kim, H.; Ryoo, J.; Rosson, M. B.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>This paper presents a possible implementation of progressive authentication using the Android pattern lock. Our key idea is to use one pattern for two access levels to the device; an abridged pattern is used to access generic applications and a second, extended and higher-complexity pattern is used less frequently to access more sensitive applications. We conducted a user study of 89 participants and a consecutive user survey on those participants to investigate the usability of such a pattern scheme. Data from our prototype showed that for unlocking lowsecurity applications the median unlock times for users of the multiple pattern scheme and conventional pattern scheme were 2824 ms and 5589 ms respectively, and the distributions in the two groups differed significantly (Mann-Whitney U test, p-value less than 0.05, two-tailed). From our user survey, we did not find statistically significant differences between the two groups for their qualitative responses regarding usability and security (t-test, p-value greater than 0.05, two-tailed), but the groups did not differ by more than one satisfaction rating at 90% confidence.</details>

***

**_Enforcing Privacy and Security in Public Cloud Storage_**  
Resende, J. S.; Martins, R.; Antunes, L.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Cloud storage allows users to remotely store their data, giving access anywhere and to anyone with an Internet connection. The accessibility, lack of local data maintenance and absence of local storage hardware are the main advantages of this type of storage. The adoption of this type of storage is being driven by its accessibility. However, one of the main barriers to its widespread adoption is the sovereignty issues originated by lack of trust in storing private and sensitive information in such a medium. Recent attacks to cloud-based storage show that current solutions do not provide adequate levels of security and subsequently fail to protect users' privacy. Usually, users rely solely on the security supplied by the storage providers, which in the presence of a security breach will ultimate lead to data leakage. In this paper, we propose and implement a broker (ARGUS) that acts as a proxy to the existing public cloud infrastructures by performing all the necessary authentication, cryptography and erasure coding. ARGUS uses erasure code as a way to provide efficient redundancy (opposite to standard replication) while adding an extra layer to data protection in which data is broken into fragments, expanded and encoded with redundant data pieces that are stored across a set of different storage providers (public or private). The key characteristics of ARGUS are confidentiality, integrity and availability of data stored in public cloud systems.</details>

***

**_A Power Analysis of Cryptocurrency Mining: A Mobile Device Perspective_**  
Clay, J.; Hargrave, A.; Sridhar, R.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We investigate the impact of how a cryptocurrency mining system can affect the power consumption of mobile devices. Specifically we look at CoinHive, a cryptocurrency miner and associated mining pool targeting the Monero (XMR) cryptocurrency. CoinHive distributes a JavaScript-based miner to webpages where visitors run the script and provide computing power to the web host's CoinHive account. Ideally, hosting JavaScript-based cryptocurrency miners provides alternatives to using ad-networks as a source of website revenue. While some users may not oppose an energy for advertisement trade-off, it may be less palatable to mobile users concerned with battery life. Our initial studies have revealed that, at a minimum, running the normally distributed JavaScript-based miner increases the power draw of a Samsung Galaxy S4 by about 5 fold. Under certain circumstances, the power draw can increase to eleven-fold. We illustrate these findings by comparing them with various normal use benchmarks and with a variety of different ad-enabled webpages.</details>

***

**_Peer Based Tracking using Multi-Tuple Indexing for Network Traffic Analysis and Malware Detection_**  
Hagan, M.; Kang, B.; McLaughlin, K.; Sezer, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Traditional firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems(IDS) and network analytics tools extensively use the `flow' connection concept, consisting of five `tuples' of source and destination IP, ports and protocol type, for classification and management of network activities. By analysing flows, information can be obtained from TCP/IP fields and packet content to give an understanding of what is being transferred within a single connection. As networks have evolved to incorporate more connections and greater bandwidth, particularly from “always on” IoT devices and video and data streaming, so too have malicious network threats, whose communication methods have increased in sophistication. As a result, the concept of the 5 tuple flow in isolation is unable to detect such threats and malicious behaviours. This is due to factors such as the length of time and data required to understand the network traffic behaviour, which cannot be accomplished by observing a single connection. To alleviate this issue, this paper proposes the use of additional, two tuple and single tuple flow types to associate multiple 5 tuple communications, with generated metadata used to profile individual connnection behaviour. This proposed approach enables advanced linking of different connections and behaviours, developing a clearer picture as to what network activities have been taking place over a prolonged period of time. To demonstrate the capability of this approach, an expert system rule set has been developed to detect the presence of a multi-peered ZeuS botnet, which communicates by making multiple connections with multiple hosts, thus undetectable to standard IDS systems observing 5 tuple flow types in isolation. Finally, as the solution is rule based, this implementation operates in realtime and does not require post-processing and analytics of other research solutions. This paper aims to demonstrate possible applications for next generation firewalls and methods to acquire additional information from network traffic.</details>

***

**_Usability and Security Effects of Code Examples on Crypto APIs_**  
Mindermann, K.; Wagner, S.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Context: Cryptographic APIs are said to be not usable and researchers suggest to add example code to the documentation. Aim: We wanted to create a free platform for cryptographic code examples that improves the usability and security of created applications by non security experts. Method: We created the open-source web platform CryptoExamples and conducted a controlled experiment where 58 students added symmetric encryption to a Java program. We then measured the usability and security. Results: The participants who used the platform were not only significantly more effective (+73 %) but also their code contained significantly less possible security vulnerabilities (-66 %). Conclusions: With CryptoExamples the gap between hard to change API documentation and the need for complete and secure code examples can be closed. Still, the platform needs more code examples.</details>

***

**_Comprehensible Categorization and Visualization of Orchestrated Malicious Domain Names using Linkage Analysis_**  
Huang, S.; Chuang, T.; Huang, S.; Ban, T.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Malicious domain names are consistently changing. It is challenging to keep blacklists of malicious domain names upto-date because of the time lag between its creation and detection. Even if a website is clean itself, it does not necessarily mean that it won't be used as a pivot point to redirect users to malicious destinations. To address this issue, this paper demonstrates how to use linkage analysis and open-source threat intelligence to visualize the relationship of malicious domain names whilst verifying their categories, i.e., drive-by download, unwanted software etc. Featured by a graph-based model that could present the inter-connectivity of malicious domain names in a dynamic fashion, the proposed approach proved to be helpful for revealing the group patterns of different kinds of malicious domain names. When applied to analyze a blacklisted set of URLs in a real enterprise network, it showed better effectiveness than traditional methods and yielded a clearer view of the common patterns in the data.</details>

***

**_A Twofold Group Key Agreement Protocol for NoC based MPSoCs_**  
Sharma, G.; Kuchta, V.; Sahu, R. A.; Ellinidou, S.; Markowitch, O.; Dricot, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>A symmetric group key agreement protocol enables the group members to derive a shared session key for secure communication among them, while an asymmetric one facilitates security to any communication from outside, without adding outsiders into the group. In this paper, we propose a twofold group key agreement protocol which addresses the need of a shared symmetric key among insider members in a group and an asymmetric key pair for any unrestricted sender. In particular, we look forward for a solution to provide secure communication among multiple processing clusters (PCs) actively running on an integrated circuit (IC). The proposed protocol offers a lightweight symmetric encryption for intra zone communication and a public key encryption for inter zone communication taking most advanced security issues into account.</details>

***

**_Poster: Agent-based (BDI) modeling for automation of penetration testing_**  
Chu, G.; Lisitsa, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Traditional penetration testing relies on the domain expert knowledge and requires considerable human effort all of which incurs a high cost. In this paper, we propose an automated penetration testing approach based on the belief-desire-intention (BDI) agent model, which is central in the research on agent based processing in that it deals interactively with dynamic, uncertain and complex environments. Penetration testing actions are defined as a series of BDI plans and the BDI reasoning cycle is used to represent the penetration testing process. The model is extensible and new plans can be added, once they have been elicited from the human experts. We report on the results of testing of proof of concept BDI-based penetration testing tool in the simulated environment.</details>

***

**_Problem-based Derivation of Trustworthiness Requirements from Users’ Trust Concerns_**  
Mohammadi, N. G.; Ulfat-Bunyadi, N.; Heisel, M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The trustworthiness of cyber-physical systems (CPS) that support complex collaborative business processes is an emergent property. New technologies like cloud computing bring new capabilities for hosting and offering complex collaborative business operations. However, these advances might introduce new vulnerabilities and threats caused by collaboration and data exchange over the Internet. Hence, users become more concerned about trust. In order to address users' trust concerns, trustworthiness requirements for the CPS must be elicited and satisfied. They describe the properties (qualities) the CPS must possess in order to be trustworthy. In this paper, we suggest a problem-based requirements engineering method that supports specifically the derivation of trustworthiness requirements. Based on identified trust concerns of users, trust assumptions are made explicit in problem diagrams. They express the conditions under which users are willing to trust. The problem diagrams and trust assumptions are then refined until they are concrete enough to derive trustworthiness requirements from them. During the refinement process, trust assumptions may influence and modify the system design (and vice versa, i.e., due to a certain system design, new trust concerns may arise that need to be addressed). In this way, users' trust concerns are considered right from the beginning and trustworthiness is designed into the CPS. An application example from the healthcare domain is used to demonstrate our approach.</details>

***

**_Trust-driven, Decentralized Data Access Control for Open Network of Autonomous Data Providers_**  
Opioła, Ł; Dutka, Ł; Słota, R. G.; Kitowski, J.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The observation of current trends in data access, especially in the field of scientific computations, shows that global data access that crosses federation boundaries is highly desirable. However, administrative constraints require that data centers remain autonomous, which effectively eliminates the possibility of cooperation. To overcome this, we plan to establish an open network of cooperating data providers. In this paper, we address the issue of data access control for such network. Our proposition is to use a synergy of hybrid peer-to-peer architecture, decentralized identity and access management, metadata synchronization protocol and trust driven authorization flow. The proposed solution is discussed using real-life use-cases concerning cross-federation data access.</details>

***

**_The continued risks of unsecured public Wi-Fi and why users keep using it: Evidence from Japan_**  
Sombatruang, N.; Kadobayashi, Y.; Sasse, M. A.; Baddeley, M.; Miyamoto, D.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Many people today use public Wi-Fi networks but they harbor security and privacy risks. We investigated the extent of these risk today, and what factors influenced users to use the networks, adapting the design of a previous UK study, this time in Japan. We first set up an experimental open public Wi-Fi network at ll locations in downtown Nara and captured Internet traffic. From approximately 7.7 million packets captured from 196 unique mobile devices during a 150-hour experiment, we found private photos, emails, documents, and login credentials being transmitted without encryption - showing that many people use unsecured public Wi-Fi networks, and many applications do not encrypt data they send. We then examined why people use public Wi-Fi in a range of scenarios through a survey with 103 participants. We found that the desire to conserve mobile data allowance was linked to a risk-taking attitude, and use of unsecured public Wi-Fi, especially among participants with a low monthly data allowance. Gender and education also played a role; female participants and those with high school education were more likely to use public Wi-Fi.</details>

***

**_Digitized Trust in Human-in-the-Loop Health Research_**  
Sutton, A.; Samavi, R.; Doyle, T. E.; Koff, D.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this paper, we propose an architecture that utilizes blockchain technology for enabling verifiable trust in collaborative health research environments. The architecture supports the human-in-the-loop paradigm for health research by establishing trust between participants, including human researchers and AI systems, by making all data transformations transparent and verifiable by all participants. We define the trustworthiness of the system and provide an analysis of the architecture in terms of trust requirements. We then evaluate our architecture by analyzing its resiliency to common security threats and through an experimental realization.</details>

***

**_Coalition-Resistant Peer Rating for Long-Term Confidentiality_**  
Traverso, G.; Butin, D.; Buchmann, J.; Palesandro, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The outsourced storage of sensitive data requires long-term confidentiality guarantees. Proactive secret sharing in a distributed storage system provides such guarantees. However, some storage service providers lack in reliability or performance for proactive secret sharing to be viable, which can threaten data confidentiality. Data owners need guidance to select the best-performing storage service providers. Aggregated peer ratings with a mediator can provide such guidance. Nevertheless, providers may rate each other inaccurately to undermine competitors. This rational behaviour must be taken into account to devise performance scoring mechanisms generating accurate aggregate scores. The natural formalism to analyse the strategies of rational agents is game theory. In this paper, we introduce a game-theoretic model of the peer rating strategies of providers. Within this model, we first show that an unincentivised performance scoring mechanism results in providers reporting inaccurate ratings. We then introduce an incentivised performance scoring mechanism, modelled as an infinitely repeated game, that discourages inaccurate ratings. We prove that this mechanism leads to accurate ratings and thus to accurate performance scores for each provider, within a margin depending on coalition sizes.</details>

***

**_Mutual Authentication in Electronic Voting Schemes_**  
Augoye, V.; Tomlinson, A.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Voter eligibility is an important requirement of electronic voting which prevents double voting and voter impersonation. Many e-voting schemes assume a trustworthy environment for vote casting and tallying hence trust pollworkers to correctly authenticate voters. In this paper we propose a mutual entity authentication protocol using biometrics to ensure voter eligibility and digital signatures for ballot authentication in an untrustworthy environment.</details>

***

