## [STM2018](STM2018.md)
Link: [[Proceedings](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-030-01141-3)]
[[Conference](https://www.nics.uma.es/pub/stm18/index.html)]
Awardなし  
***
**_Cyber Insurance Against Electronic Payment Service Outages_**  
Franke, Ulrik
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Society is becoming increasingly dependent on IT services. One example is the dependence of retailers on electronic payment services. This article investigates the terms and conditions offered by three electronic payment service providers, finding that they only guarantee best effort availability. As potential mitigation, five cyber insurance policies are studied from the perspective of coverage of electronic payment service outages. It is concluded that cyber insurance does indeed give some protection, but that coverage differs between insurers and between different policy options offered. Thus, a retailer who wishes to purchase cyber insurance should take care to understand what is on offer and actively select appropriate coverage.</details>

***

**_A Fast and Scalable Fragmentation Algorithm for Data Protection Using Multi-storage over Independent Locations_**  
Kapusta, Katarzyna; Memmi, Gerard
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Data fragmentation and dispersal over several independent locations enhances protection level of outsourced data. In this paper, we introduce a Fast and Scalable Fragmentation Algorithm (FSFA) that is particularly well adapted to be used in a multi-cloud environment. It transforms data into interdependent fragments that all have to be gathered in order to reconstruct the initial information. A performance comparison with published related works (including data encryption and dispersal) demonstrates it can be more than twice faster than the fastest of the relevant fragmentation techniques, while producing reasonable storage overhead.</details>

***

**_A Spark Is Enough in a Straw World: A Study of Websites Password Management in the Wild_**  
Raponi, Simone; Di Pietro, Roberto
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The widespread usage of password authentication in online websites leads to an ever-increasing concern, especially when considering the possibility for an attacker to recover the user password by leveraging the loopholes in the password recovery mechanisms. Indeed, the adoption of a poor password management system by a website makes useless even the most robust password chosen by its users.In this paper, we first provide an analysis of currently adopted password recovery mechanisms. Later, we model an attacker with a set of different capabilities, and we show how current password recovery mechanisms can be exploited in our attacker model. Then, we provide a thorough analysis of the password management of some of the Alexa’s top 200 websites in different countries, including England, France, Germany, Spain and Italy. Of these 1,000 websites, 722 do not require authentication—and hence are excluded from our study—, while out of the remaining 278 we focused on 174—since 104 demanded information we could not produce. Of these 174, almost 25% have critical vulnerabilities, while 44% have some form of vulnerability. Finally, we point out that, by considering the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May, 2018, most of websites are not compliant with the legislation and may incur in heavy fines. This study, other than being important on its own since it highlights some severe current vulnerabilities and proposes corresponding remedies, has the potential to have a relevant impact on the EU industrial ecosystem.</details>

***

**_Verifiable Outsourcing of Computations Using Garbled Onions_**  
Dönmez, Tahsin C. M.
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Solutions to the verifiable outsourcing problem based on Yao’s Garbled Circuit (GC) construction have been investigated in previous works. A major obstacle to the practicality of these solutions is the single-use nature of the GC construction. This work introduces the novel technique onion garbling, which circumvents this obstacle by using only a symmetric-key cipher as its cryptographic machinery. This work also proposes a non-interactive protocol for verifiable outsourcing which utilizes the onion garbling technique. The protocol works in a 3-party setting, and consists of a preprocessing phase and an online phase. The cost of a preprocessing phase which can support up to N computations is independent of N for the outsourcing party. For the other two parties, the memory and communication cost of N-reusability is proportional to \(N \cdot m\), where m is the bit-length of the input. The cost of input preparation and verification is \(\mathcal {O}(m+n)\) symmetric-key cipher operations, where n is the bit-length of the output. The overall costs associated with the outsourcing party are low enough to allow verifiable outsourcing of arbitrary computations by resource-constrained devices on constrained networks. Finally, this work reports on a proof-of-concept implementation of the proposed verifiable outsourcing protocol.</details>

***

**_Semi-automatically Augmenting Attack Trees Using an Annotated Attack Tree Library_**  
Jhawar, Ravi; Lounis, Karim; Mauw, Sjouke; Ramírez-Cruz, Yunior
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We present a method for assisting the semi-automatic creation of attack trees. Our method allows to explore a library of attack trees, select elements from this library that can be attached to an attack tree in construction, and determine how the attachment should be done. The process is supported by a predicate-based formal annotation of attack trees. To show the feasibility of our approach, we describe the process for automatically building a library of annotated attack trees from standard vulnerability descriptions in a publicly available online resource, using information extraction techniques. Then, we show how attack trees manually constructed from high level definitions of attack patterns can be augmented by attaching trees from this library.</details>

***

**_Tux: Trust Update on Linux Booting_**  
Lee, Suhho; Yoo, Seehwan
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Preserving integrity is one of the essential requirements in trusted computing. However, When it comes to system update, even with the state-of-the-art integrity management system such as OpenCIT cannot properly manage integrity. This is because the updates are not transparent to the remote attestation server and the integrity value is not updated according to the updates.This paper presents Trust Update on Linux booting, TUX. TUX collaboratively manages the integrity along with the kernel update, so that the update is transparent to the attestation server. With TUX, we can successfully maintain trust for the managed machines, even with frequent OS kernel updates. Also, TUX guarantees robust verified and measured boot to safeguard the integrity of a system’s booting process.</details>

***

**_Modular Verification of Sequential Composition for Private Channels in Maude-NPA_**  
Yang, Fan; Escobar, Santiago; Meadows, Catherine; Meseguer, José
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>This paper gives a modular verification methodology in which, given parametric specifications of a key establishment protocol P and a protocol Q providing private channel communication, security and authenticity properties of their sequential composition \(P\; ;\; Q\) can be reduced to: (i) verification of corresponding properties for P, and (ii) verification of corresponding properties for an abstract version \(Q^\alpha \) of Q in which keys have been suitably abstracted. Our results improve upon previous work in this area in several ways. First of all, we both support a large class of equational theories and provide tool support via the Maude-NPA cryptographic protocol analysis tool. Secondly as long as certain conditions on P and Q guaranteeing the secrecy of keys inherited by Q from P are satisfied, our results apply to the composition of any two reachability properties of the two protocols.</details>

***

**_Achieving Strong Security and Verifier-Local Revocation for Dynamic Group Signatures from Lattice Assumptions_**  
Perera, Maharage Nisansala Sevwandi; Koshiba, Takeshi
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Both member registration and member revocation are essential features in group signature schemes. In ASIACRYPT 2016 Libert, Ling, Mouhartem, Nguyen, and Wang suggested a simple joining mechanism with their lattice-based group signature scheme with member registration. However, their scheme does not support member revocation. Verifier-local revocation is a member revocation approach in group signature schemes, which only requires the verifiers to keep the revocation messages while existing members have no burden. Since there is no workload for existing members related to revocation messages, verifier-local revocation method became the most suitable revocation approach for any environment. However, original group signature schemes with verifier-local revocability satisfy weaker security. This paper adds verifier-local revocation mechanism to the Libert’s (ASIACRYPT 2016) scheme to produce a fully dynamic lattice-based group signature scheme with member registration and member revocation using verifier-local revocation mechanism. Moreover, the resulted scheme achieves stronger security than the security in the original group signature schemes with verifier-local revocation.</details>

***

