## [POST2019](POST2019.md) 8th International Conference on Principles of Security and Trust
Link: [[Proceedings](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-030-17138-4)]
[[Conference](https://www.etaps.org/2019/post)]
[[Awards](https://www.etaps.org/2019/test-of-time-award)]  
***
**_$$\textsc {Wys}^\star $$: A DSL for Verified Secure Multi-party Computations_**  
Rastogi, Aseem; Swamy, Nikhil; Hicks, Michael  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-17138-4_5  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Secure multi-party computation (MPC) enables a set of mutually distrusting parties to cooperatively compute, using a cryptographic protocol, a function over their private data. This paper presents \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \), a new domain-specific language (DSL) for writing mixed-mode MPCs. \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \) is an embedded DSL hosted in F\(^\star \), a verification-oriented, effectful programming language. \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \) source programs are essentially F\(^\star \) programs written in a custom MPC effect, meaning that the programmers can use F\(^\star \)’s logic to verify the correctness and security properties of their programs. To reason about the distributed runtime semantics of these programs, we formalize a deep embedding of \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \), also in F\(^\star \). We mechanize the necessary metatheory to prove that the properties verified for the \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \) source programs carry over to the distributed, multi-party semantics. Finally, we use F\(^\star \)’s extraction to extract an interpreter that we have proved matches this semantics, yielding a partially verified implementation. \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \) is the first DSL to enable formal verification of MPC programs. We have implemented several MPC protocols in \(\textsc {Wys}^\star \), including private set intersection, joint median, and an MPC-based card dealing application, and have verified their correctness and security.</details>

***

**_Orchestrating Layered Attestations_**  
Ramsdell, John D.; Rowe, Paul D.; Alexander, Perry; Helble, Sarah C.; Loscocco, Peter; Pendergrass, J. Aaron; Petz, Adam  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-17138-4_9  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We present Copland, a language for specifying layered attestations. Layered attestations provide a remote appraiser with structured evidence of the integrity of a target system to support a trust decision. The language is designed to bridge the gap between formal analysis of attestation security guarantees and concrete implementations. We therefore provide two semantic interpretations of terms in our language. The first is a denotational semantics in terms of partially ordered sets of events. This directly connects Copland to prior work on layered attestation. The second is an operational semantics detailing how the data and control flow are executed. This gives explicit implementation guidance for attestation frameworks. We show a formal connection between the two semantics ensuring that any execution according to the operational semantics is consistent with the denotational event semantics. This ensures that formal guarantees resulting from analyzing the event semantics will hold for executions respecting the operational semantics. All results have been formally verified with the Coq proof assistant.</details>

***

