## [POST2018](POST2018.md) 7th International Conference on Principles of Security and Trust
Link: [[Proceedings](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-89722-6)]
[[Conference](https://www.etaps.org/2018/post)]
[[Awards](https://www.etaps.org/2018/test-of-time-award)]  
***
**_Formal Verification of Integrity-Preserving Countermeasures Against Cache Storage Side-Channels_**  
Nemati, Hamed; Baumann, Christoph; Guanciale, Roberto; Dam, Mads  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-89722-6_5  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Formal verification of systems-level software such as hypervisors and operating systems can enhance system trustworthiness. However, without taking low level features like caches into account the verification may become unsound. While this is a well-known fact w.r.t. timing leaks, few works have addressed latent cache storage side-channels, whose effects are not limited to information leakage. We present a verification methodology to analyse soundness of countermeasures used to neutralise these channels. We apply the proposed methodology to existing countermeasures, showing that they allow to restore integrity of the system. We decompose the proof effort into verification conditions that allow for an easy adaption of our strategy to various software and hardware platforms. As case study, we extend the verification of an existing hypervisor whose integrity can be tampered using cache storage channels. We used the HOL4 theorem prover to validate our security analysis, applying the verification methodology to a generic hardware model.</details>

***

**_SoK: Unraveling Bitcoin Smart Contracts_**  
Atzei, Nicola; Bartoletti, Massimo; Cimoli, Tiziana; Lande, Stefano; Zunino, Roberto  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-89722-6_9  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Albeit the primary usage of Bitcoin is to exchange currency, its blockchain and consensus mechanism can also be exploited to securely execute some forms of smart contracts. These are agreements among mutually distrusting parties, which can be automatically enforced without resorting to a trusted intermediary. Over the last few years a variety of smart contracts for Bitcoin have been proposed, both by the academic community and by that of developers. However, the heterogeneity in their treatment, the informal (often incomplete or imprecise) descriptions, and the use of poorly documented Bitcoin features, pose obstacles to the research. In this paper we present a comprehensive survey of smart contracts on Bitcoin, in a uniform framework. Our treatment is based on a new formal specification language for smart contracts, which also helps us to highlight some subtleties in existing informal descriptions, making a step towards automatic verification. We discuss some obstacles to the diffusion of smart contracts on Bitcoin, and we identify the most promising open research challenges.</details>

***

**_A Semantic Framework for the Security Analysis of Ethereum Smart Contracts_**  
Grishchenko, Ilya; Maffei, Matteo; Schneidewind, Clara  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-89722-6_10  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Smart contracts are programs running on cryptocurrency (e.g., Ethereum) blockchains, whose popularity stem from the possibility to perform financial transactions, such as payments and auctions, in a distributed environment without need for any trusted third party. Given their financial nature, bugs or vulnerabilities in these programs may lead to catastrophic consequences, as witnessed by recent attacks. Unfortunately, programming smart contracts is a delicate task that requires strong expertise: Ethereum smart contracts are written in Solidity, a dedicated language resembling JavaScript, and shipped over the blockchain in the EVM bytecode format. In order to rigorously verify the security of smart contracts, it is of paramount importance to formalize their semantics as well as the security properties of interest, in particular at the level of the bytecode being executed.In this paper, we present the first complete small-step semantics of EVM bytecode, which we formalize in the F* proof assistant, obtaining executable code that we successfully validate against the official Ethereum test suite. Furthermore, we formally define for the first time a number of central security properties for smart contracts, such as call integrity, atomicity, and independence from miner controlled parameters. This formalization relies on a combination of hyper- and safety properties. Along this work, we identified various mistakes and imprecisions in existing semantics and verification tools for Ethereum smart contracts, thereby demonstrating once more the importance of rigorous semantic foundations for the design of security verification techniques.</details>

***

**_Tool Demonstration: FSolidM for Designing Secure Ethereum Smart Contracts_**  
Mavridou, Anastasia; Laszka, Aron  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-89722-6_11  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Blockchain-based distributed computing platforms enable the trusted execution of computation—defined in the form of smart contracts—without trusted agents. Smart contracts are envisioned to have a variety of applications, ranging from financial to IoT asset tracking. Unfortunately, the development of smart contracts has proven to be extremely error prone. In practice, contracts are riddled with security vulnerabilities comprising a critical issue since bugs are by design non-fixable and contracts may handle financial assets of significant value. To facilitate the development of secure smart contracts, we have created the FSolidM framework, which allows developers to define contracts as finite state machines (FSMs) with rigorous and clear semantics. FSolidM provides an easy-to-use graphical editor for specifying FSMs, a code generator for creating Ethereum smart contracts, and a set of plugins that developers may add to their FSMs to enhance security and functionality.</details>

***

