## [PST2018](PST2018.md) 16th Annual Conference on Privacy, Security and Trust
Link: [[Proceedings](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/conhome/8498146/proceeding)]
[[Conference](https://pstnet.ca/)]
Awardなし  
***
**_Crossing Cross-Domain Paths in the Current Web_**  
Ruohonen, Jukka; Salovaara, Joonas; Leppänen, Ville  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514163  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The loading of resources from third-parties has evoked new security and privacy concerns about the current world wide web. Building on the concepts of forced and implicit trust, this paper examines cross-domain transmission control protocol (TCP) connections that are initiated to domains other than the domain queried with a web browser. The dataset covers nearly ten thousand domains and over three hundred thousand TCP connections initiated by querying popular Finnish websites and globally popular sites. According to the results, (i) cross-domain connections are extremely common in the current Web. (ii) Most of these transmit encrypted content, although mixed content delivery is relatively common; many of the cross-domain connections deliver unencrypted content at the same time. (iii) Many of the cross-domain connections are initiated to known web advertisement domains, but a much larger share traces to social media platforms and cloud infrastructures. Finally, (iv) the results differ slightly between the Finnish web sites sampled and the globally popular sites. With these results, the paper contributes to the ongoing work for better understanding cross-domain connections and dependencies in the world wide web.</details>

***

**_Mutual Authentication in Electronic Voting Schemes_**  
Augoye, Voke; Tomlinson, Allan  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514212  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Voter eligibility is an important requirement of electronic voting which prevents double voting and voter impersonation. Many e-voting schemes assume a trustworthy environment for vote casting and tallying hence trust pollworkers to correctly authenticate voters. In this paper we propose a mutual entity authentication protocol using biometrics to ensure voter eligibility and digital signatures for ballot authentication in an untrustworthy environment.</details>

***

**_Problem-based Derivation of Trustworthiness Requirements from Users’ Trust Concerns_**  
Mohammadi, Nazila Gol; Ulfat-Bunyadi, Nelufar; Heisel, Maritta  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514183  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The trustworthiness of cyber-physical systems (CPS) that support complex collaborative business processes is an emergent property. New technologies like cloud computing bring new capabilities for hosting and offering complex collaborative business operations. However, these advances might introduce new vulnerabilities and threats caused by collaboration and data exchange over the Internet. Hence, users become more concerned about trust. In order to address users' trust concerns, trustworthiness requirements for the CPS must be elicited and satisfied. They describe the properties (qualities) the CPS must possess in order to be trustworthy. In this paper, we suggest a problem-based requirements engineering method that supports specifically the derivation of trustworthiness requirements. Based on identified trust concerns of users, trust assumptions are made explicit in problem diagrams. They express the conditions under which users are willing to trust. The problem diagrams and trust assumptions are then refined until they are concrete enough to derive trustworthiness requirements from them. During the refinement process, trust assumptions may influence and modify the system design (and vice versa, i.e., due to a certain system design, new trust concerns may arise that need to be addressed). In this way, users' trust concerns are considered right from the beginning and trustworthiness is designed into the CPS. An application example from the healthcare domain is used to demonstrate our approach.</details>

***

**_Digitized Trust in Human-in-the-Loop Health Research_**  
Sutton, Andrew; Samavi, Reza; Doyle, Thomas E.; Koff, David  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514168  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this paper, we propose an architecture that utilizes blockchain technology for enabling verifiable trust in collaborative health research environments. The architecture supports the human-in-the-loop paradigm for health research by establishing trust between participants, including human researchers and AI systems, by making all data transformations transparent and verifiable by all participants. We define the trustworthiness of the system and provide an analysis of the architecture in terms of trust requirements. We then evaluate our architecture by analyzing its resiliency to common security threats and through an experimental realization.</details>

***

**_Trust-driven, Decentralized Data Access Control for Open Network of Autonomous Data Providers_**  
Opioła, Łukasz; Dutka, Łukasz; Słota, Renata G.; Kitowski, Jacek  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514209  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The observation of current trends in data access, especially in the field of scientific computations, shows that global data access that crosses federation boundaries is highly desirable. However, administrative constraints require that data centers remain autonomous, which effectively eliminates the possibility of cooperation. To overcome this, we plan to establish an open network of cooperating data providers. In this paper, we address the issue of data access control for such network. Our proposition is to use a synergy of hybrid peer-to-peer architecture, decentralized identity and access management, metadata synchronization protocol and trust driven authorization flow. The proposed solution is discussed using real-life use-cases concerning cross-federation data access.</details>

***

**_On Sybil Classification in Online Social Networks Using Only Structural Features_**  
Mulamba, Dieudonne; Ray, Indrajit; Ray, Indrakshi  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514162  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Sybil attack is a problem that seriously affects Online Social Networks (OSNs). These attacks are made possible by the openness of OSN platforms that allows an attacker to create multiple fake accounts, called Sybils, which are then used to compromise the underlining trust pinnings of the OSN. Early Sybil account detection mechanisms involved classification of users into benign and malicious based on various attributes collected from the user profiles. One challenge affecting these classification methods is that user attributes can often be in-complete or inaccurate. In addition, these classification methods can be evaded by sophisticated attackers. More importantly, user profiles can often reveal sensitive user information that can potentially be misused causing privacy violation. In this work, we propose a Sybil detection method that is based on the classification of users into malicious and benign based on the inherent topology or structure of the underlining OSN graph. We propose a new set of structural features for a graph. Using this new feature set, we perform several experiments on both synthetic as well as real-world OSN data. Our results show that the proposed detection method is very effective in correctly classifying Sybil accounts without running the risk of being evaded by a sophisticated attacker and without compromising privacy of users.</details>

***

**_Enforcing Privacy and Security in Public Cloud Storage_**  
Resende, João S.; Martins, Rolando; Antunes, Luís  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514195  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Cloud storage allows users to remotely store their data, giving access anywhere and to anyone with an Internet connection. The accessibility, lack of local data maintenance and absence of local storage hardware are the main advantages of this type of storage. The adoption of this type of storage is being driven by its accessibility. However, one of the main barriers to its widespread adoption is the sovereignty issues originated by lack of trust in storing private and sensitive information in such a medium. Recent attacks to cloud-based storage show that current solutions do not provide adequate levels of security and subsequently fail to protect users' privacy. Usually, users rely solely on the security supplied by the storage providers, which in the presence of a security breach will ultimate lead to data leakage. In this paper, we propose and implement a broker (ARGUS) that acts as a proxy to the existing public cloud infrastructures by performing all the necessary authentication, cryptography and erasure coding. ARGUS uses erasure code as a way to provide efficient redundancy (opposite to standard replication) while adding an extra layer to data protection in which data is broken into fragments, expanded and encoded with redundant data pieces that are stored across a set of different storage providers (public or private). The key characteristics of ARGUS are confidentiality, integrity and availability of data stored in public cloud systems.</details>

***

**_Privacy Preserving Probabilistic Record Linkage Without Trusted Third Party_**  
Lazrig, Ibrahim; Ong, Toan C.; Ray, Indrajit; Ray, Indrakshi; Jiang, Xiaoqian; Vaidya, Jaideep  
https://doi.org/10.1109/PST.2018.8514192  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>For the purpose of research, organizations often need to share and link data belonging to a single individual while protecting her privacy. This problem, referred to as privacy preserving record linkage (PPRL), has been investigated by researchers. Most PPRL works focus on deterministic linkages where the identifying attributes of two records must be equal in order to declare them to belong to the same individual. Moreover, most of these methods require the active participation of a trusted third party (TTP). If this TTP is compromised, it makes the data from all participating parties vulnerable to information leakage. The proposed work improves upon the existing methods in two ways. First, we propose a protocol which does not require two records to have an exact match on identifying attributes in order to be declared as belonging to the same individual. Second, we investigate probabilistic PPRL in the two-party setting without resorting to any TTP. We use Bloom filters for probabilistic matching and Yao's garbled circuit to perform the computation needed for the matching on encrypted data. To alleviate the computation and communication overhead of Yao's protocol, we leverage data blocking methods and optimize the computation. We provide a security proof of our method and experimentally evaluate the performance gained on large benchmark datasets.</details>

***

