## [STM2019](STM2019.md) 15th International Workshop on Security and Trust Management
Link: [[Proceedings](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-030-31511-5)]
[[Conference](https://stm2019.uni.lu/)]
Awardなし  
***
**_Audit-Based Access Control with a Distributed Ledger: Applications to Healthcare Organizations_**  
Morelli, Umberto; Ranise, Silvio; Sartori, Damiano; Sciarretta, Giada; Tomasi, Alessandro  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31511-5_2  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We propose an audit-based architecture that leverages the Hyperledger Fabric distributed ledger as a means to increase accountability and decentralize the authorization decision process of Attribute-Based Access Control policies by using smart contracts. Our goal is to decrease the trust in administrators and users with privileged accounts, and make the a posteriori verification of access events more reliable. We implement our approach to the use case of Electronic Health Record access control. Preliminary experiments show the viability of the proposed approach.</details>

***

**_Understanding Attestation: Analyzing Protocols that Use Quotes_**  
Guttman, Joshua D.; Ramsdell, John D.  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31511-5_6  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Attestation protocols use digital signatures and other cryptographic values to convey evidence of hardware state, program code, and associated keys. They require hardware support such as Trusted Execution Environments. Conclusions about attestations thus depend jointly on protocols, hardware services, and program behavior.We present a mechanized approach to modeling these properties, combining protocol analysis with axioms, that formalize hardware and software properties. Here, we model aspects of Intel’s SGX mechanism. Above the underlying manufacturer-provided protocols, we build a modular user-level that uses its attestations to make trust decisions.</details>

***

**_Challenges of Using Trusted Computing for Collaborative Data Processing_**  
Wagner, Paul Georg; Birnstill, Pascal; Beyerer, Jürgen  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31511-5_7  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In recent years many business processes have become more interconnected than ever before. Driven by the advance of the Internet of Things, companies rely on complex data processing chains that span over many collaborating corporations and across different countries. As a result of this development, automated data acquisition and collaborative data usage is now a foundation of many innovative and successful business models. However, despite having a clear interest in sharing valuable data with other stakeholders, data owners simultaneously need to protect their assets against illegitimate use. In order to accommodate this requirement, existing data sharing solutions contain usage control systems capable of enforcing policies on data even after they have been shared. The integrity of these policy enforcement components is often monitored by a trusted platform module (TPM) on the data receiver’s side. In this work we evaluate the adequacy of TPM-based remote attestation for protecting shared data on foreign systems. In order to do so we develop an attacker model that includes privileged system users and expose attack vectors on TPM-protected data sharing applications. We show that TPMs do not provide sufficient protection against malicious administrators from competing stakeholders. Finally, we describe the advantages of using Intel’s Software Guard Extensions (SGX) to protect shared data in hostile environments and propose an enhanced system architecture that includes both SGX enclaves as well as a classical TPM.</details>

***

**_Secure Trust Evaluation Using Multipath and Referral Chain Methods_**  
Raeini, Mohammad G.; Nojoumian, Mehrdad  
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31511-5_8  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The notions of trust and reputation have been well studied and integrated into computer networks and internet-based services, e.g., Amazon and eBay websites. Using trust and reputation as social mechanisms can enhance the quality, reliability and trustworthiness of networks or services. These social mechanisms can also be used to provide better security measures. Indeed, trust and reputation can be considered as soft security methods that compliment hard security techniques. However, data security and privacy are among the primary challenges in trust and reputation systems. We therefore propose a secure trust evaluation (STE) method in which privacy of trust values and corresponding weights are preserved. Our proposed method is constructed based on an information theoretic framework for modeling trust and two approaches that propagate trust in a network, i.e., multipath and referral chain techniques. In other words, we utilize secure multiparty computation to provide protocols by which the nodes in a network will be able to evaluate their trust values in a secure fashion. We also provide a fascinating application of our STE method in the context of network routing protocols.</details>

***

