## [TrustCom2018](TrustCom2018.md) 17th IEEE International Conference On Trust, Security And Privacy In Computing And Communications
Link: [[Proceedings](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/conhome/8454845/proceeding)]
[[Conference](http://www.cloud-conf.net/trustcom18/)]
Awardなし  
***
**_Engineering Trust: A Graph-Based Algorithm for Modeling, Validating, and Evaluating Trust_**  
Tucker, S.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00011  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Trust is an important topic in today's interconnected world. Breaches of trust in today's systems has had profound effects upon us all, and they are very difficult and costly to fix especially when caused by flaws in the system's architecture. Trust modeling can expose these types of issues, but modeling trust in complex multi-tiered system architectures can be very difficult. Often experts have differing views of trust and how it applies to systems within their domain. This work presents a graph-based modeling methodology that normalizes the application of trust across disparate system domains allowing the modeling of complex intersystem trust relationships. An algorithm is proposed that applies graph theory to model, validate and evaluate trust in system architectures. Also, it provides the means to apply metrics to compare and prioritize the effectiveness of trust management in system and component architectures. The results produced by the algorithm can be used in conjunction with systems engineering processes to ensure both trust and the efficient use of resources.</details>

***

**_A Novel Dynamic Cloud Service Trust Evaluation Model in Cloud Computing_**  
Wang, Y.; Wen, J.; Zhou, W.; Luo, F.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00012  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>There are many different types of cloud services. How to choose the best cloud service for a specific application is a challenging issue. Using cloud services, users' private data could be exposed to a third party, which might not be trusted. In this paper, a dynamic cloud service trust evaluation model is proposed based on service-level agreement (SLA) and privacy-awareness. First, to make the final trust evaluation value more practical, the proposed model performs a comprehensive trust evaluation, which consists of direct, indirect, and reputation trust. Second, cloud services are divided into five levels based on their service capabilities. By analyzing SLA to determine the quality of service, the user can choose a suitable SLA. In order to protect data security of the cloud service user, we propose a data protection method based on a normal cloud model. Finally, we propose a dynamic trust update mechanism to update the direct trust. Experimental results based on a public dataset show that the proposed model effectively identifies the user community based on service preferences, improves the service requester's satisfaction, avoids malicious interference, and is accurate and feasible.</details>

***

**_One Secure Access Scheme Based on Trusted Execution Environment_**  
Fan, Y.; Liu, S.; Tan, G.; Lin, X.; Zhao, G.; Bai, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00013  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The wide adoption of mobile devices poses an imminent threat to preserving privacy. In order to prevent the leakage of sensitive information (such as the contact list, or private pictures) raised by inappropriate access, we propose a secure access scheme based on Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) specifically designed for mobile devices. The proposed scheme has two purposes: secure access and minimizing losses. For secure access, we use TEE to run access authorization and verification; for minimizing losses, we use the strategy of file slice to divide the sensitive file into multiple parts and then encrypt the file parts respectively in case of large-scale leakage. Practically, our scheme's ""minimizing losses"" can be easily expanded to cloud computing by mapping one file part in our scheme to a whole file in cloud computing scenario. The theoretical analysis and experimental evaluation indicate that our scheme meets the requirement in respects of efficiency and security.</details>

***

**_Understanding Trust, Privacy and Financial Fears in Online Payment_**  
Haddad, G. El; Aïmeur, E.; Hage, H.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00015  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In online payment, customers must transmit their personal and financial information through the website to conclude their purchase and pay the services or items selected. They may face possible fears from online transactions raised by their risk perception about financial or privacy loss. They may have concerns over the payment decision with the possible negative behaviors such as shopping cart abandonment. Therefore, customers have three major players that need to be addressed in online payment: the online seller, the payment page, and their own perception. However, few studies have explored these three players in an online purchasing environment. In this paper, we focus on the customer concerns and examine the antecedents of trust, payment security perception as well as their joint effect on two fundamentally important customers' aspects privacy concerns and financial fear perception. A total of 392 individuals participated in an online survey. The results highlight the importance, of the seller website's components (such as ease of use, security signs, and quality information) and their impact on the perceived payment security as well as their impact on customer's trust and financial fear perception. The objective of our study is to design a research model that explains the factors contributing to an online payment decision.</details>

***

**_DecentID: Decentralized and Privacy-Preserving Identity Storage System Using Smart Contracts_**  
Friebe, S.; Sobik, I.; Zitterbart, M.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00016  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Many Internet services require the registration of an account before permitting use of their services. Over time, many Internet users end up with a multitude of accounts with separated identities. A solution to this problem is offered by single-sign-on (SSO) providers, where a user can create a single identity and use this identity for multiple services. However it requires the user to trust the SSO provider. When the provider blocks access to the identities the users lose access to their subscribed services. To avoid this problem, we propose DecentID, a completely decentralized identity storage system that does not require a centralized trusted third party. Instead, a public blockchain is used as trust anchor. Identities can be created and used for different services. Each service can only read the identity attributes disclosed for it without being able to read attributes the user wants to keep secret.</details>

***

**_Reputation Prediction Using Influence Conversion_**  
Rakoczy, M. E.; Bouzeghoub, A.; Gancarski, A. Lopes; Wegrzyn-Wolska, K.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00017  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Currently, due to constantly increasing popularity of social media sites and thus increasing amounts of data available to study, the field of social computing has gained momentum. The research about human interactions in social networks have proven to have multiple usages in e-commerce, recommendation and others. Amongst studied topics, notions of trustworthiness and influence drawn much attention in recent years. However, these notions were studied separately and independently, with little focus on the fact that, in real life, they tend to exist simultaneously. In this paper, we focus on this novel problem and present an investigation of both influence and reputation. In particular, we propose a transition method, that uses existing influence information from social network in order to predict the collective trustworthiness of the node, or reputation. Through preliminary experiments on a real-world dataset, we demonstrate the suitability of our method.</details>

***

**_Secure, Resilient, and Self-Configuring Fog Architecture for Untrustworthy IoT Environments_**  
Kahla, M.; Azab, M.; Mansour, A.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00018  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The extensive increase in the number of IoT devices and the massive data generated and sent to the cloud hinder the cloud abilities to handle it. Further, some IoT devices are latency-sensitive. Such sensitivity makes it harder for far clouds to handle the IoT needs in a timely manner. A new technology named ""Fog computing"" has emerged as a solution to such problems. Fog computing relies on close by computational devices to handle the conventional cloud load. However, Fog computing introduced additional problems related to the trustworthiness and safety of such devices. Unfortunately, the suggested architectures did not consider such problem. In this paper we present a novel self-configuring fog architecture to support IoT networks with security and trust in mind. We realize the concept of Moving-target defense by mobilizing the applications inside the fog using live migrations. Performance evaluations using a benchmark for mobilized applications showed that the added overhead of live migrations is very small making it deployable in real scenarios. Finally, we presented a mathematical model to estimate the survival probabilities of both static and mobile applications within the fog. Moreover, this work can be extended to other systems such as mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETS) or in vehicular cloud computing (VCC).</details>

***

**_Repoxy: Replication Proxy for Trustworthy SDN Controller Operation_**  
Azab, M.; Hamdy, A.; Mansour, A.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00019  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Software Defined Networks (SDN) is envisaged as a future model for large-scale, elastic, and adaptive networks. However, such flexibility comes with a major cost. Relying heavily on software across the entire architecture and the centralized nature of the most important component, the controller, gave the attackers asymmetric advantage. for decades, we used to build security tools to secure the network traffic, but network components security was always protected by physical perimeters behind doors. In this paper, we present REPlication prOXY(Repoxy), a smart gateway isolating the north and southbound to enhance controller resilience, availability, and reliability in presence of attacks and also discuss our first version of the implementation. Repoxy presents a novel SDN-controller intrusion detection system to detect any malicious manipulations to the controller software. Further, Repoxy enables elasticity and high-availability for SDN controllers by facilitating southbound-oblivious seamless multi-controller replication, and handover for same network traffic. Additionally, Repoxy helps forensic analysts to easily find attack traces by exploiting Repoxy's information-rich database logging all the switch controller interactions. Results and evaluations showed the enhanced trustworthiness in the SDN network with a reasonable overhead when Repoxy is used.</details>

***

**_A Dynamic Trust Weight Allocation Technique for Data Reconstruction in Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks_**  
Aleman, C. Sanchez; Pissinou, N.; Alemany, S.; Kamhoua, G.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00020  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Data accuracy and low energy consumption in mobile wireless sensor networks (MWSN) are crucial attributes for real-time applications. Although there are many existing methods to reconstruct data for wireless sensor networks, there are few developed for highly mobile environments. We propose Dynamic Trust Weight Allocation Technique (DTWA), a novel in-network data reconstruction method that determines the trust level in the data accuracy of each candidate node by evaluating spatio-temporal correlations, trajectory behavior, quantity and quality of data, and the number of hops traveled by the received data from the source. DTWA is capable of evaluating second-hand data when there is no first-hand data available and selecting second-hand data when this last is more accurate than the first-hand data. Our results demonstrate that data reconstructed using DTWA depicts significantly lower Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) compared to the IMC method when tested for both low and high incomplete dataset scenarios.</details>

***

**_TARAS: Trust-Aware Role-Based Access Control System in Public Internet-of-Things_**  
Gwak, B.; Cho, J.; Lee, D.; Son, H.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00022  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Due to the proliferation of Internet-of-Things (IoT) environments, humans working with heterogeneous, smart objects in public IoT environments become more popular than ever before. This situation often requires to establish trust relationships between a user and a smart object for their secure interactions, but without the presence of prior interactions. In this work, we are interested in how a smart object can grant an access right to a human user in the absence of any prior knowledge in which some users may be malicious aiming to breach security goals of the IoT system. To solve this problem, we propose a trust-aware, role-based access control system, namely TARAS, which provides adaptive authorization to users based on dynamic trust estimation. In TARAS, for the initial trust establishment, we take a multidisciplinary approach by adopting the concept of I-sharing from psychology. The I-sharing follows the rationale that people with similar roles and traits are more likely to respond in a similar way. This theory provides a powerful tool to quickly establish trust between a smart object and a new user with no prior interactions. In addition, TARAS can adaptively filter malicious users out by revoking their access rights based on adaptive, dynamic trust estimation. Our experimental results show that the proposed TARAS mechanism can maximize system integrity in terms of correctly detecting malicious or benign users while maximizing service availability to users particularly when the system is fine-tuned based on the identified optimal setting in terms of an optimal trust threshold.</details>

***

**_BARS: A Blockchain-Based Anonymous Reputation System for Trust Management in VANETs_**  
Lu, Z.; Wang, Q.; Qu, G.; Liu, Z.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00025  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The public key infrastructure (PKI) based authentication protocol provides the basic security services for vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANETs). However, trust and privacy are still open issues due to the unique characteristics of vehicles. It is crucial for VANETs to prevent internal vehicles from broadcasting forged messages while simultaneously protecting the privacy of each vehicle against tracking attacks. In this paper, we propose a blockchain-based anonymous reputation system (BARS) to break the linkability between real identities and public keys to preserve privacy. The certificate and revocation transparency is implemented efficiently using two blockchains. We design a trust model to improve the trustworthiness of messages relying on the reputation of the sender based on both direct historical interactions and indirect opinions about the sender. Experiments are conducted to evaluate BARS in terms of security and performance and the results show that BARS is able to establish distributed trust management, while protecting the privacy of vehicles.</details>

***

**_Turning Trust Around: Smart Contract-Assisted Public Key Infrastructure_**  
Ahmed, A. S.; Aura, T.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00026  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In past, several Certificate Authority (CA) compromise and subsequent mis-issue of certificate raise the importance of certificate transparency and dynamic trust management for certificates. Certificate Transparency (CT) provides transparency for issued certificates, thus enabling corrective measure for a mis-issued certificate by a CA. However, CT and existing mechanisms cannot convey the dynamic trust state for a certificate. To address this weakness, we propose Smart Contract-assisted PKI (SCP) - a smart contract based PKI extension - to manage dynamic trust network for PKI. SCP enables distributed trust in PKI, provides a protocol for managing dynamic trust, assures trust state of a certificate, and provides a better trust experience for end-users.</details>

***

**_A Comprehensive Analysis of Packet Loss in MANETs_**  
Khan, M. S.; Waris, S.; Ahmed, I.; Khan, M. I.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00028  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Security schemes proposed for for Mobile Ad hoc Networks (MANETs) based on node's trust computation consider packet drop as a sign of misbehaving from malicious nodes. However, this may not be always true because of node mobility and limited processing capability feature of nodes in MANETs. As nodes are free to move in MANETs, packet loss may occur due to node mobility, non-availability of next hop nodes, and so on. Moreover, due to frequent data from multiple sources, a forwarding node queue may overflow that causes packet loss. Furthermore, packet loss may also occur due to congestion in the network. To better overcome the packet loss problem discussed previously, the packet loss possible reasons should be analyzed comprehensively in all aspect and then propose a counter strategy against each packet loss reason. In this paper, we analyze the reasons behind packet loss in MANETs comprehensively under different network scenarios. Moreover, we investigate the effect of different network parameters, such as mobility, data rate, and congestion on packet loss. One of the main contributions of this paper is to analyze the causes of packet drop comprehensively in MANETs. This work provides detailed insights in selecting the proper parameters to analyze the behavior of nodes in the network in different context. Moreover, this work also provides help in the design of trust-based security schemes to detect and isolate true malicious nodes in the network.</details>

***

**_Trust4App: Automating Trustworthiness Assessment of Mobile Applications_**  
Habib, S. M.; Alexopoulos, N.; Islam, M. M.; Heider, J.; Marsh, S.; Müehlhäeuser, M.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00029  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Smartphones have become ubiquitous in our everyday lives, providing diverse functionalities via millions of applications (apps) that are readily available. To achieve these functionalities, apps need to access and utilize potentially sensitive data, stored in the user's device. This can pose a serious threat to users' security and privacy, when considering malicious or underskilled developers. While application marketplaces, like Google Play store and Apple App store, provide factors like ratings, user reviews, and number of downloads to distinguish benign from risky apps, studies have shown that these metrics are not adequately effective. The security and privacy health of an application should also be considered to generate a more reliable and transparent trustworthiness score. In order to automate the trustworthiness assessment of mobile applications, we introduce the Trust4App framework, which not only considers the publicly available factors mentioned above, but also takes into account the Security and Privacy (S&P) health of an application. Additionally, it considers the S&P posture of a user, and provides an holistic personalized trustworthiness score. While existing automatic trustworthiness frameworks only consider trustworthiness indicators (e.g. permission usage, privacy leaks) individually, Trust4App is, to the best of our knowledge, the first framework to combine these indicators. We also implement a proof-of-concept realization of our framework and demonstrate that Trust4App provides a more comprehensive, intuitive and actionable trustworthiness assessment compared to existing approaches.</details>

***

**_Bionic Mechanism Based Dynamic Trust Evaluation Method in Cloud Environment_**  
Ma, S.; Shuai, X.; Zhou, Z.; Qiao, K.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00030  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In cloud environments, trust is one of the most important tools to enhance security. Trust can improve the reliability of cloud computing resources and has an important role in the business environments. In this paper, trust in cloud environment is regarded as a self-organizing system, using bionic mechanism, a dynamic trust evaluation method with family attribute is proposed. In this method, factors of trust evaluation include time, IP and behavior feedback. Data structure of access record table and trust record table are designed to store the relationship between ancestor nodes and descendant nodes. Based on trust information of the current node's ancestors, the biological evolution process is simulated. In order to minimize the influence of joint fraud on trust evaluation, the connected graph of ancestor nodes is constructed to evaluate the comprehensive trust of the node? which is converted to TSP problem and the optimal sequence of ancestor nodes is got by ant colony algorithm. The influence weight of ancestor node's trust on the current node's trust evaluation is denoted by the geometric sequence, and each factor's trust evaluation value of the current node is calculated. According to each factor's average weight of ancestor nodes, the comprehensive trust value of the current node is calculated. The simulation result shows that the trust evaluation method based on bionic mechanism is effective, and trust evaluation process of the current node can be regarded as comprehensive application of the ancestors' trust information, and the optimal trust sequence is searched. With increasing of ancestor nodes' trust information, the trust evaluation result is more accurate, which can effectively solve the joint fraud problem.</details>

***

**_ESRQ: An Efficient Secure Routing Method in Wireless Sensor Networks Based on Q-Learning_**  
Liu, G.; Wang, X.; Li, X.; Hao, J.; Feng, Z.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00032  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Some trust-based methods have been proposed for consideration by guaranteeing the security routing of wireless sensor networks (WSN) recently. However, Most of the current research work usually consumes a lot of energy resources and computing resources or only performs well for specific types of attacks. In this paper, we propose a lightweight and efficient security routing method by combining the trust mechanism with q-learning algorithm. The sensor node determines the credibility of the specific node autonomously and efficiently according to the performance of the behavior of the node. The results show that 1) this method provides a more secure routing mechanism and it can effectively deal with many kinds of attacks; and 2) the method is lightweight and reliable, it provides better energy/packet delivery tradeoff performance compared with other existing trust-based methods and can cope with different conditions.</details>

***

**_Trust-Based Dynamic Linear Threshold Models for Non-competitive and Competitive Influence Propagation_**  
Caliò, A.; Tagarelli, A.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00033  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>What are the key-features that enable an information diffusion model to explain the inherent dynamic, and often competitive, nature of real-world propagation phenomena? In this paper we aim to answer this question by proposing a novel class of diffusion models, inspired by the classic Linear Threshold model, and built around the following aspects: trust/distrust in the user relationships, which is leveraged to model different effects of social influence on the decisions taken by an individual; changes in adopting one or alternative information items; hesitation towards adopting an information item over time; latency in the propagation; time horizon for the unfolding of the diffusion process; and multiple cascades of information that might occur competitively. To the best of our knowledge, the above aspects have never been unified into the same LT-based diffusion model. We also define different strategies for the selection of the initial influencers to simulate non-competitive and competitive diffusion scenarios, particularly related to the problem of limitation of misinformation spread. Results on publicly available networks have shown the meaningfulness and uniqueness of our models.</details>

***

**_A Trust Energy-Efficient QoS Routing Scheme for Mobile Peer-to-Peer Networks_**  
Qu, D.; Liang, D.; Wu, S.; Li, J.; Xuan, W.; Wang, X.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00035  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Due to the ubiquitous use of wireless communication and enormous success of peer-to-peer (P2P) mode in wired networks, mobile P2P network (MP2P) attracts increasing attentions. However, the selfishness of nodes caused by the P2P mode, the scarcity of resources, and the Quality of Service (QoS) requirements of various network applications make it difficult to design an appropriate routing scheme. Thus, in this paper, we propose a trust energy-efficient QoS routing scheme in MP2P. We evaluate a routing path from three different aspects, namely, trust, energy consumption and QoS respectively. We apply interval forms to denote the network states and application requirements respectively for their difficulty to obtain and describe accurately, and calculate their matching by probability model and satisfaction degree as the evaluation value of a link. Then a heuristic routing protocol is proposed to find satisfied routing paths. Results from simulation experiments demonstrate that our proposed scheme has a better performance.</details>

***

**_An Elite Clone Parallel Genetic Algorithm for Trust Monitoring Assignment Problem in Adaptive Wireless Sensor Networks_**  
Zhou, J.; Tian, M.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00039  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Adaptive wireless sensor networks (AWSNs) consist of sensors that have sensing, computation, wireless communication, and free-infrastructure abilities. AWSNs have applications in the fields of transportation, environmental monitoring, homelands security, automated assistance for the elderly monitors, industrial process control, military purposes and many other areas. The trust monitoring assignment scheme is usually designed for AWSNs to enhance the monitored rate. However, the trust monitoring assignment problem can be formulated as a nonlinear mixed integer optimization problem. In this paper, we propose an elite clone parallel genetic algorithm (ECPGA) based trust monitoring assignment approach for maximizing the monitored rate. We formulate our objective function to optimize the monitored rate under multiple constraints. The proposed algorithm combines the advantages of high efficiency of elite selection and the global search ability of the clone mutation. An analysis is given to show the correctness of ECPGA, and simulations are conducted to demonstrate the performance improvement of ECPGA against simulated annealing (SA) and ant colony optimization (ACO). Although sub-optimal for AWSNs systems, simulation results demonstrate that the proposed ECPGA algorithm can reach higher monitoring rate compared to the SA and ACO approach.</details>

***

**_Quality of Information as an indicator of Trust in the Internet of Things_**  
Baqa, H.; Truong, N. B.; Crespi, N.; Lee, G. M.; Gall, F. Le  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00040  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The past decade has seen a rise in complexity and scale of software systems, particularly with the emerging of the Internet of Thing consisting of large scale and heterogeneous entities which results in difficulties in providing trustworthy services. To overcome such challenges, providing high quality information for IoT service provider as well as monitoring trust relationship of end-users toward the services are paramount. Such trust relationships are user-oriented and subjective phenomenon that hook on specific quality of data. Following this catalyst, we propose a mechanism to evaluate quality of information (QoI) for streaming data from sensor device; then use the QoI evaluation score as an indicator of trust. Concepts and assessment methodology for QoI along with a trust monitoring system are described. We also develop a framework that classifies streaming of data based on semantic context and generate QoI score as a relevant input for a trust monitoring component. This framework enables a dynamic trust management in the context of IoT for both end-users and services that empowers service providers to deliver trustworthy and high quality IoT services. Challenges encountered during implementation and contribution in standardization are discussed. We believe this paper offers better understanding on QoI and its importance in trust evaluation in IoT applications; also provides detailed implementation of the QoI and Trust components for real-world applications and services.</details>

***

**_Practical Decentralized Attribute-Based Delegation Using Secure Name Systems_**  
Schanzenbach, M.; Banse, C.; Schütte, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00046  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Identity and trust in the modern Internet are centralized around an oligopoly of identity service providers consisting solely of major tech companies. The problem with centralizing trust has become evident in recent discoveries of mass surveillance and censorship programs as well as information leakage through hacking incidents. One approach to decentralizing trust is distributed, attribute-based access control via attribute-based delegation (ABD). Attribute-based delegation allows a large number of cross-domain attribute issuers to be used in making authorization decisions. Attributes are not only issued to identities, but can also be delegated to other attributes issued by different entities in the system. The resulting trust chains can then be resolved by any entity given an appropriate attribute storage and resolution system. While current proposals often fail at the practicability, we show how attribute-based delegation can be realized on top of the secure GNU Name System (GNS) to solve an authorization problem in a real-world scenario.</details>

***

**_Online Allocation of Cloud Resources Based on Security Satisfaction_**  
Halabi, T.; Bellaiche, M.; Abusitta, A.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00063  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Businesses are becoming increasingly interested in exploiting the Cloud Computing technology. However, Cloud insecurity is still among the main factors that are blocking the full migration towards this paradigm. Increasing security investments will speed up the Cloud adoption process and improve the trustworthiness of the Cloud Service Providers (CSP). Moreover, the integration of the security element into the process of resource allocation will help increase the protection of the deployed services. However, this integration requires suitable modeling of customers' security requirements and CSPs' security offerings. To this end, we propose in this paper a broker-based model for the allocation of resources in the Cloud based on service security satisfaction. The resource allocation problem is modeled as a linear optimization problem and solved using an Evolutionary Computation approach, namely, the Genetic Algorithm (GA). The objective is to maximize the global security satisfaction of users' services by placing them on the data centers that adhere the most to their security requirements. Results show that the GA achieves an acceptable approximation of the optimal solution and is computationally efficient, which makes it suitable to function in online mode and cope with the scalability of the Cloud environment.</details>

***

**_Inscription: Thwarting ActionScript Web Attacks From Within_**  
Sridhar, M.; Mohanty, A.; Yilmaz, F.; Tendulkar, V.; Hamlen, K. W.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00078  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The design and implementation of Inscription, the first fully automated Adobe Flash binary code transformation system that can guard major Flash vulnerability categories without modifying vulnerable Flash VMs, is presented and evaluated. Inscription affords a means of mitigating the significant class of web attacks that target unpatched, legacy Flash VMs and their apps. Such legacy VMs, and the new and legacy Flash apps that they run, continue to abound in a staggering number of web clients and hosts today; their security issues routinely star in major annual threat reports and exploit kits worldwide. Through two complementary binary transformation approaches based on in-lined reference monitoring, it is shown that many of these exploits can be thwarted by a third-party principal (e.g., web page publisher, ad network, network firewall, or web browser) lacking the ability to universally patch all end-user VMs-write-access to the untrusted Flash apps (prior to execution) suffices. Detailed case-studies describing proof-of-concept exploits and mitigations for five major vulnerability categories are reported.</details>

***

**_A Temporal and Spatial Constrained Attribute-Based Access Control Scheme for Cloud Storage_**  
Liu, Z.; Jiang, Z. L.; Wang, X.; Yiu, S. M.; Zhang, R.; Wu, Y.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00092  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Cloud storage service allows data owners to store their (encrypted) data in a remote and may be untrusted cloud server. Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE) provides an excellent and flexible solution for data access control. As more and more applications evolved, ABE schemes may not handle all scenarios, in particular, if the access control has a time and location constraint. Time and location attributes are not as static as other general attributes. Existing ABE schemes cannot efficiently handle the continuous range of an attribute making it impractical for temporal and spatial constraints that are changing dynamically. In this paper, we propose a novel temporal and spatial constrained attribute-based access control (TSC-ABAC) scheme to solve this problem. Our system adopts a redesigned access structure and makes use of multi-dimensional range derivation function to match the time domain. This is the first ABE scheme that can efficiently handle time and location elements simultaneously. We further propose an extended TSC-ABAC scheme, which aims at reducing the decryption cost imposed on user. A thorough security and performance analysis shows that our design is secure and efficient. The result of our work could provide a feasible and practical data access control scheme for cloud storage services.</details>

***

**_Blockchain Based Secured Identity Authentication and Expeditious Revocation Framework for Vehicular Networks_**  
Malik, N.; Nanda, P.; Arora, A.; He, X.; Puthal, D.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00099  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Authentication and revocation of users in Vehicular Adhoc Networks (VANETS) are two vital security aspects. It is extremely important to perform these actions promptly and efficiently. The past works addressing these issues lack in mitigating the reliance on the centralized trusted authority and therefore do not provide distributed and decentralized security. This paper proposes a blockchain based authentication and revocation framework for vehicular networks, which not only reduces the computation and communication overhead by mitigating dependency on a trusted authority for identity verification, but also speedily updates the status of revocated vehicles in the shared blockchain ledger. In the proposed framework, vehicles obtain their Pseudo IDs from the Certificate Authority (CA), which are stored along with their certificate in the immutable authentication blockchain and the pointer corresponding to the entry in blockchain, enables the Road Side Units (RSUs) to verify the identity of a vehicle on road. The efficiency and performance of the framework has been validated using the Omnet++ simulation environment.</details>

***

**_Fully Decentralized Authentication and Revocation Scheme in Data Sharing Systems_**  
Li, X.; Jiang, J.; Chen, Y.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00100  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this paper, we propose a fully decentralized authentication and revocation scheme(f-DMA) based on multi-authority attribute-based encryption that can be used in data sharing systems with multiple distrusted authorizes. This scheme establishes a fully decentralized secret key generation and key distribution systems, which eliminates the security risk on central authority(CA) compromise and is resilient to authority and user collusion attacks. Our system also provides computation efficient revocation that can achieve both specific user revocation and attribute revocation. We prove our scheme correct under the Decisional Bilinear Diffie-Hellman (DBDH) assumption; we also include a complete end-to-end implementation that demonstrates the practical efficacy of our technique.</details>

***

**_An Experimental Flow Secure File System_**  
Rudrapatna, S.; Kumar, N. Narendra; Taware, A.; Vyas, P.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00113  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Information-flow control (IFC) encompasses several practical end-to-end security requirements including confidentiality and integrity, and is widely regarded as a uniform approach to building secure systems. File system is an important component of any secure system as it is the most widely used channel for information sharing among applications. In this paper, we present a design and implementation of a secure file system, based on the Readers-Writers Flow Model (RWFM), for a Linux OS. The secure file system imposes requisite access controls at the granularity of operating system processes, and controls information-flow via the file-system objects. That the system indeed prevents misuse of indirect information flow is demonstrated by encoding practical security policies like the standard Linux access controls, RBAC, Chinese-wall etc. One of the distinct characteristics of the approach is that it satisfies the property of labeled security protection as envisaged in the Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria; perhaps the first on a full file system of a widely used OS. Another distinct advantage of our system is that it requires (i) minimal effort from the end-user for specifying the initial policy, and (ii) no additional effort from the programmers perspective. The current implementation is illustrated through examples, compared with implementations of other similar efforts related to file-systems and other relevant facets from the literature.</details>

***

**_Reinforcing IoT-Enforced Security Policies_**  
Oualha, N.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00119  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>To provide confidentiality protection and access control to large amount of data generated by the Internet of Things (IoT), one promising approach lies on the use of Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE). However, the ABE-based approach needs to cope with the resource constraints of IoT devices, by providing data encryption and access control only under small access policies. With the goal to mitigate this limitation inherent to the IoT, this paper introduces a new technique that relies on semi-trusted intermediate entities to reinforce large access policies derived from small policies enforced by IoT devices without revealing the encrypted data.</details>

***

**_Lightweight Verification for Searchable Encryption_**  
Wang, B.; Fan, X.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00132  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Symmetric Searchable Encryption (SSE) is a promising primitive to securely perform keyword queries and to efficiently retrieve associated files from a curious server without sacrificing data privacy. Unfortunately, besides being curious, an untrusted server could also be malicious, which would return incorrect or incomplete results to a client. Since a client does not maintain its entire dataset locally after outsourcing, preventing malicious servers is necessary and challenging. In this paper, we propose a lightweight Verifiable SSE scheme, which can verify the correctness and completeness of keyword search results obtained from SSE against a malicious server. Our scheme not only achieves an asymptotically efficient verification time and communication overhead, but also outperforms previous solutions in practice. Moreover, our scheme can efficiently support updates on verification metadata. We formally define and analyze the security of our scheme, and conduct extensive experiments on massive datasets to demonstrate the efficiency of our scheme.</details>

***

**_Capstone: Mobility Modeling on Smartphones to Achieve Privacy by Design_**  
Kulkarni, V.; Moro, A.; Chapuis, B.; Garbinato, B.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00136  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Sharing location traces with context-aware service providers has privacy implications. Location-privacy preserving mechanisms, such as obfuscation, anonymization and cryptographic primitives, have been shown to have impractical utility/privacy tradeoff. Another solution for enhancing user privacy is to minimize data sharing by executing the tasks conventionally carried out at the service providers' end on the users' smartphones. Although the data volume shared with the untrusted entities is significantly reduced, executing computationally demanding server-side tasks on resource-constrained smartphones is often impracticable. To this end, we propose a novel perspective on lowering the computational complexity by treating spatiotemporal trajectories as space-time signals. Lowering the data dimensionality facilitates offloading the computational tasks onto the digital-signal processors and the usage of the non-blocking signal-processing pipelines. While focusing on the task of user mobility modeling, we achieve the following results in comparison to the state of the art techniques: (i) mobility models with precision and recall greater than 80%, (ii) reduction in computational complexity by a factor of 2.5, and (iii) reduction in power consumption by a factor of 0.5. Using real-world mobility datasets, we demonstrate the suitability of our technique to function on smartphones.</details>

***

**_AuthStore: Password-Based Authentication and Encrypted Data Storage in Untrusted Environments_**  
Zeidler, C.; Asghar, M. R.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00140  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Passwords are widely used for client to server authentication as well as for encrypting data stored in untrusted environments, such as cloud storage. Both, authentication and encrypted cloud storage, are usually discussed in isolation. In this work, we propose AuthStore, a flexible authentication framework that allows users to securely reuse passwords for authentication as well as for encrypted cloud storage at a single or multiple service providers. Users can configure how secure passwords are protected using password stretching techniques. We present a compact password-authenticated key exchange protocol (CompactPAKE) that integrates the retrieval of password stretching parameters. A parameter attack is described and we show how existing solutions suffer from this attack. Furthermore, we introduce a password manager that supports CompactPAKE.</details>

***

**_Track me if you can? Query Based Dual Location Privacy in VANETs for V2V and V2I_**  
Arif, M.; Wang, G.; Peng, T.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00152  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In the Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs), a vehicle or the vehicle driver could be recognized and tracked by eavesdropping its queries (e.g., beacons) by an adversary, since these quires contain personal information and data such as the queries and location of the vehicle. This attack leads to threats on the vehicles location privacy. The current solutions, exercises Anonymizer, a third trusted party (TTP) in between the LBS and the vehicles. The insertion of the TTP shifts the endangered entity from the LBS to the Anonymizer, regarding security risk, and with the jeopardized anonymizer, the vehicles or vehicles drivers related data will also be at risk. In this paper, we come up with efficient query based dual location privacy in VANETs for V2V and V2I communication. In which we use the circle based dummy generation (CBDG) algorithm along with TTP. Before sending the query to the TTP first we create some dummy location by using CBDG, because we cannot trust completely on TTP architecture. And then we use CASPER as TTP to process the desired query from vehicles to LBS. after receiving the processed query from the LBS, the TTP sends the results back to the drives, where the vehicle drivers finds their desired results. Our results shows that the proposed scheme preserve the location privacy based on the queries at low communication and computational cost.</details>

***

**_QueryGuard: Privacy-Preserving Latency-Aware Query Optimization for Edge Computing_**  
Xu, R.; Palanisamy, B.; Joshi, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00153  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>The emerging edge computing paradigm has enabled applications having low response time requirements to meet the quality of service needs of applications by moving the computations to the edge of the network that is geographically closer to the end-users and end-devices. Despite the low latency advantages provided by the edge computing model, there are significant privacy risks associated with the adoption of edge computing services for applications dealing with sensitive data. In contrast to cloud data centers where system infrastructures are managed through strict and regularized policies, edge computing nodes are scattered geographically and may not have the same degree of regulatory and monitoring oversight. This can lead to higher privacy risks for the data processed and stored at the edge nodes, thus making them less trusted. In this paper, we show that a direct application of traditional performance-based query optimization techniques in edge computing can lead to unexpected data disclosure risks at the edge nodes. We propose a new privacy-preserving latency-aware query optimization framework, QueryGuard, that simultaneously tackles the privacy-aware distributed query processing problem while optimizing the queries for latency. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that QueryGuard achieves better performance in terms of execution time and memory usage than conventional distributed query optimization techniques while also enforcing the required constraints related to data privacy.</details>

***

**_PMDA: Privacy-Preserving Multi-functional Data Aggregation Without TTP in Smart Grid_**  
He, Z.; Pan, S.; Lin, D.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00154  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In the smart grid, residents' electricity usage needs to be periodically measured and reported for the purpose of better energy management. At the same time, real-time collection of residents' electricity consumption may unfavorably incur privacy leakage, which has motivated the research on privacy-preserving aggregation of electricity readings. Most previous studies either rely on a trusted third party (TTP) or suffer from expensive computation. In this paper, we first reveal the privacy flaws of a very recent scheme pursing privacy preservation without relying on the TTP. By presenting concrete attacks, we show that this scheme has failed to meet the design goals. Then, for better privacy protection, we construct a new scheme called PMDA, which utilizes Shamir's secret sharing to allow smart meters to negotiate aggregation parameters in the absence of a TTP. Using only lightweight cryptography, PMDA efficiently supports multi-functional aggregation of the electricity readings, and simultaneously preserves residents' privacy. Theoretical analysis is provided with regard to PMDA's security and efficiency. Moreover, experimental data obtained from a prototype indicates that our proposal is efficient and feasible for practical deployment.</details>

***

**_An Efficient Blacklistable Anonymous Credential System with Reputation Using Pairing-Based Accumulator_**  
Nakanishi, T.; Kanatani, T.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00158  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>To achieve the privacy-enhancing authentications without any TTP (Trusted Third Party), blacklistable anonymous credential systems have been proposed. In conventional blacklistable anonymous credential systems, a user is blacklisted after the user misbehaves once. Since it is too harsh to be of practical use, extended blacklistable anonymous credential systems based on reputation have been proposed. In the reputation-based system, each behavior of a user is given a score. The service provider publishes a reputation list of correspondences between session ID and the score. In the authentication, a user can anonymously prove the total of his own scores. However, the previously proposed systems have the efficiency problem: The authentication data size is O(|L|) or O(K), where |L| is the size of the reputation list L, and K is the size of the following window. In the window type of systems, the authentication is based on a window with most recent K authentications of the user. When a past authentication becomes outside the window, the misbehaving of the authentication is forgiven. Thus, K should be as large as possible. Therefore, the previous systems suffer from O(|L|) or O(K)-size data in each authentication. In addition, in the previous systems, the authentication needs the computation of O(|L|) or O(K) exponentiations, which is heavy. In this paper, an efficient blacklistable anonymous credential system with reputation is proposed. In our system, the data size of the authentication does not depend on parameters such as |L| and K, and is O(1). Furthermore, although the computational costs in the authentication depend on some parameters, the parameter-related costs are only multiplications instead of exponentiations. For constructing our system, we newly introduce the concept of an accumulator for reputation, and show an efficient pairing-based construction. Using the accumulator, we construct the efficient blacklistable anonymous credential system with reputation.</details>

***

**_Towards Domain-Specific and Privacy-Preserving Qualified eID in a User-Centric Identity Model_**  
Lenz, T.; Krnjic, V.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00160  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Unique and qualified identification is essential in numerous security-critical areas, like eGovernment, or eBusiness. Therefore, many countries have already deployed eID solutions to confirm identity information of entities and to increase trust into the identity information. Many of these confirmation solutions only support an all-or-nothing disclosure, which means that selective disclosure of single attributes is not possible. Some other work has dealt with this privacy issue by using anonymous credentials or malleable signatures. However, all of these solutions lacks in flexible generation of qualified and provable pseudonyms that based on confirmed eID information. In this paper, we propose an advanced and lightweight model for user-centric and qualified identity information that facilitates selective disclosure and domain-specific altering of single identity attributes in order to protect the citizen's privacy. We illustrate the practical applicability of our model by implementing all components as prototype applications. Finally, we evaluate our model and compare it with other approaches for selective disclosure.</details>

***

**_RZKPB: A Privacy-Preserving Blockchain-Based Fair Transaction Method for Sharing Economy_**  
Li, B.; Wang, Y.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00161  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Emerging blockchain systems have been widely adopted in sharing economy, such as e-commerce, to allow mutually distrustful parties to transact fairly without trusted parties. Most blockchain systems, however, lack transactional privacy protection. All transactions, including trading relationship between pseudonyms and content transacted, are exposed on the blockchain. Although many existing privacy protection methods on the blockchain have been proposed, it is difficult to find a trade-off between keeping speed and protecting privacy of transactions. To address this limitation, we propose a novel privacy-preserving method RZKPB that does not store financial transactions in clear on the blockchain, thus retaining transactional privacy from the public's view. Meanwhile, these transactions are as proofs to solve disputes between trading partners. RZKPB ensures fairness and privacy of transactions between participants without adding a new trusted party and breaking the verifying protocol on the blockchain. We take the e-commerce as an example in sharing economy to introduce RZKPB in our paper. Our experimental results show that compared with existing privacy-preserving methods based on the blockchain, RZKPB is more efficient under different settings.</details>

***

**_PHeDHA: Protecting Healthcare Data in Health Information Exchanges with Active Data Bundles_**  
Fadheel, W.; Salih, R.; Lilien, L.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00164  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Health Information Exchanges (HIEs) collect and disseminate electronic patient healthcare data (EHRs/EMRs) among different healthcare providers to improve the quality and reduce the cost of healthcare services. However, the dissemination of patient data raises privacy and security concerns due to ease of copying and unauthorized dissemination of electronic data. This paper proposes a HIE system called PHeDHA (Protecting Healthcare Data in HIEs with Active Data Bundles), which provides privacy and security protection for patient data during their transmission via an HIE among different healthcare providers. PHeDHA uses as its basis the scheme named Active Data Bundles with Trusted Third Party (ADB-TTP). As the name suggests, ADB-TTP is based on an integration of a trusted third party (TTP) with Active Data Bundles (ADBs). An ADB is a software object that keeps patient healthcare data as sensitive data; includes metadata describing these sensitive data and prescribing their use (via data access and privacy policies specified within metadata); and encompasses a policy enforcement engine (called a virtual machine or VM), which controls and manages how the ADB behaves. In particular, the VM assures ADB's data integrity and enforces its policies specified as a part of metadata. We describe and discuss the conceptual model for PHeDHA, based on ADB-TTP. We are currently evaluating PHeDHA via simulation experiments.</details>

***

**_Monero Ring Attack: Recreating Zero Mixin Transaction Effect_**  
Wijaya, D. A.; Liu, J.; Steinfeld, R.; Liu, D.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00165  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Monero is one of the privacy-preserving cryptocurrencies employing CryptoNote protocol. The privacy features in Monero are provided by cryptographic techniques such as linkable ring signature and one-time public key. Recent studies show that the majority of Monero inputs are traceable prior to mandatory RingCT transaction. After the RingCT was implemented, the problems were mitigated. We propose a novel attack to reduce the anonymity of Monero transactions or even to fully deanonymise the inputs. The proposed protocol can be launched in RingCT protocol and enables multiple attackers to collaborate without trusting each other. The attack scheme can be planted in the existing Monero services without extra fees and without putting the users' money at risk.</details>

***

**_PANDORA: Preserving Privacy in PRNU-Based Source Camera Attribution_**  
Mohanty, M.; Zhang, M.; Asghar, M. R.; Russello, G.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00166  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Photo Response Non-Uniformity (PRNU) noise-based source camera attribution is a popular digital forensic method. In this method, a camera fingerprint computed from a set of known images of the camera is matched against the extracted noise of an anonymous questionable image to find if the camera had taken the anonymous image. The possibility of privacy leak, however, is one of the main concerns of the PRNU-based method. Using the camera fingerprint (or the extracted noise), an adversary can identify the owner of the camera by matching the fingerprint with the noise of an image (or with the fingerprint computed from a set of images) crawled from a social media account. In this paper, we address this privacy concern by encrypting both the fingerprint and the noise using the Boneh-Goh-Nissim (BGN) encryption scheme, and performing the matching in encrypted domain. To overcome leakage of privacy from the content of an image that is used in the fingerprint calculation, we compute the fingerprint within a trusted environment, such as ARM TrustZone. We present PANDORA that aims at minimizing privacy loss and allows authorized forensic experts to perform camera attribution.</details>

***

**_Identifying Passive Message Fingerprint Attacks via Honey Challenge in Collaborative Intrusion Detection Networks_**  
Li, W.; Meng, W.; Wang, Y.; Kwok, L. F.; Lu, R.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00167  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>To enhance the detection capability of a single intrusion detection system (IDS), collaborative intrusion detection networks (CIDNs) have been exploited and developed via enabling a set of IDS nodes to exchange information with each other. In CIDNs, challenge-based trust mechanism has been considered as one promising solution to identify malicious nodes by evaluating the satisfaction levels between challenges and responses. However, such mechanism is still vulnerable to some advanced insider attacks like passive message fingerprint attack (PMFA), which is deemed as an advanced attack on challenge-based CIDNs by collecting messages and identifying normal requests in a passive way. In this work, we focus on PMFA and design Honey Challenge, an improved challenge mechanism for challenge-based CIDNs characterized by sending challenges in a similar way of sending normal requests, in such a way malicious nodes cannot accurately identify the normal requests. In the evaluation, we investigate the attack performance under both simulated and real network environments. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed mechanism can identify malicious nodes under PMFA and decrease their trust values in a quick manner.</details>

***

**_Enabling Trust in Deep Learning Models: A Digital Forensics Case Study_**  
K, A.; Grzonkowski, S.; Lekhac, N.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00172  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Today, the volume of evidence collected per case is growing exponentially, to address this problem forensics investigators are looking for investigation process with tools built on new technologies like big data, cloud services, and Deep Learning (DL) techniques. Consequently, the accuracy of artifacts found also relies on the performance of techniques used, especially DL models. Recently, Deep Neural Nets (DNN) have achieved state of the art performance in the tasks of classification and recognition. In the context of digital forensics, DNN has been applied in the domains of cybercrime investigation such as child abuse investigations, malware classification, steganalysis and image forensics. However, the robustness of DNN models in the context of digital forensics is never studied before. Hence, in this research, we design and implement a domain-independent Adversary Testing Framework (ATF) to test security robustness of black-box DNN's. By using ATF, we also methodically test a commercially available DNN service used in forensic investigations and bypass the detection, where published methods fail in control settings.</details>

***

**_Managed Blockchain Based Cryptocurrencies with Consensus Enforced Rules and Transparency_**  
Mell, P.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00177  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Blockchain based cryptocurrencies are usually unmanaged, distributed, consensus-based systems in which no single entity has control. Managed cryptocurrencies can be implemented using private blockchains but are fundamentally different as the owners have complete control to do arbitrary activity without transparency (since they control the mining). In this work we explore a hybrid approach where a managed cryptocurrency is maintained through distributed consensus based methods. The currency administrator can perform ongoing management functions while the consensus methods enforce the rules of the cryptocurrency and provide transparency for all management actions. This enables the introduction of money management features common in fiat currencies but where the managing entity cannot perform arbitrary actions and transparency is enforced. We thus eliminate the need for users to trust the currency administrator but also to enable the administrator to manage the cryptocurrency. We demonstrate how to implement our approach through modest modifications to the implicit Bitcoin specification, however, our approach can be applied to most any blockchain based cryptocurrency using a variety of consensus methods.</details>

***

**_Blockchain as a Notarization Service for Data Sharing with Personal Data Store_**  
Chowdhury, M. J. M.; Colman, A.; Kabir, M. A.; Han, J.; Sarda, P.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00183  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Personal data such as electronic medical records and academic records are critical and sensitive private information. These personal information is usually hosted across many data-custodian systems. Personal Data Store (PDS) is a service that lets an individual store, manage and deploy their key personal data in a highly secure and structured way. It also gives the user a central point of control for their personal information. One of the inherent problems of digital records is that it can be easily forged. Therefore, the data-consumer(with whom the data is shared) often needs to verify the authenticity of the shared document/record by communicating with the document/certificate issuing authority (e.g., data custodian). However, this process is time consuming and inefficient. In recent time, blockchain has gained tremendous attention from both industry and academia for distributed recording and immutable transactions. Blockchain provides a shared, immutable and transparent history of transactions enabling the building of applications that incorporate trust, accountability and transparency. This provides a unique opportunity to develop a secure and trustable data sharing system using blockchain. However, blockchain is primarily proposed for publicly verifiable transactions and does not provide privacy to the individuals. In this paper, we propose a data sharing framework that will guarantee the authenticity of the shared data in real-time and provide transactional privacy in a blockchain network. We have implemented our framework in a prototype that ensures privacy, integrity, and fine-grained access control over the shared data. The proposed work can significantly reduce the turnaround time for data sharing, improve the decision making process and reduce the overall cost.</details>

***

**_Qualified eID Derivation Into a Distributed Ledger Based IdM System_**  
Abraham, A.; Theuermann, K.; Kirchengast, E.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00195  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Traditional identity management systems (IdMS) suffer from significant weaknesses, such as the reliance on a single central entity that provides the identity data or the users lack control over their identity data. The introduction of qualified self-sovereign identities (SSIs) for eGovernment systems can strengthen the privacy of citizens. Furthermore, it is possible to solve fundamental trust issues of traditional IdMS by utilizing distributed ledger technology (DLT) together with performing a consensus algorithm. The contribution of this paper is twofold. First, this paper proposes a solution for the derivation of qualified electronic identities (eIDs), issued by a traditional IdMS, into a distributed ledger (DL) based IdMS that enables SSIs. Second, we have implemented a proof-of-concept (PoC) realizing qualified eID derivation into an SSI system based on the DLT. This PoC was realized, among others, by introducing an agent that represents the interface between the traditional IdM and the SSI system as well as by extending the consensus algorithm. The proposed approach used for eID derivation ensures the maintenance of the trust as well as the quality of the identity data.</details>

***

**_A Hybrid Recommendation Algorithm Based on Heuristic Similarity and Trust Measure_**  
Yang, C.; Chen, X.; Song, T.; Jiang, B.; Liu, Q.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00196  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>In this paper, we propose a hybrid collaborative filtering recommendation algorithm based on heuristic similarity and trust measure, in order to alleviate the problem of data sparsity, cold start and trust measure. Firstly, a new similarity measure is implemented by weighted fusion of multiple similarity influence factors obtained from the rating matrix, so that the similarity measure becomes more accurate. Then, a user trust relationship computing model is implemented by constructing the user's trust network based on the trust propagation theory. On this basis, a SIMT collaborative filtering algorithm is designed which integrates trust and similarity instead of the similarity in traditional collaborative filtering algorithm. Further, an improved K nearest neighbor recommendation based on clustering algorithm is implemented for generation of a better recommendation list. Finally, a comparative experiment on FilmTrust dataset shows that the proposed algorithm has improved the quality and accuracy of recommendation, thus overcome the problem of data sparsity, cold start and trust measure to a certain extent.</details>

***

**_Building Trusted Golden Models-Free Hardware Trojan Detection Framework Against Untrustworthy Testing Parties Using a Novel Clustering Ensemble Technique_**  
Bian, R.; Xue, M.; Wang, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00203  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>As a result of the globalization of integrated circuits (ICs) design and fabrication process, ICs are becoming vulnerable to hardware Trojans. Most of the existing hardware Trojan detection works suppose that the testing stage is trustworthy. However, testing parties may conspire with malicious attackers to modify the results of hardware Trojan detection. In this paper, we propose a trusted and robust hardware Trojan detection framework against untrustworthy testing parties exploiting a novel clustering ensemble method. The proposed technique can expose the malicious modifications on Trojan detection results introduced by untrustworthy testing parties. Compared with the state-of-the-art detection methods, the proposed technique does not require fabricated golden chips or simulated golden models. The experiment results on ISCAS89 benchmark circuits show that the proposed technique can resist modifications robustly and detect hardware Trojans with decent accuracy (up to 91%).</details>

***

**_Behavioral Based Trust Metrics and the Smart Grid_**  
Obert, J.; Chavez, A.; Johnson, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00209  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>To ensure reliable and predictable service in the electrical grid it is important to gauge the level of trust present within critical components and substations. Although trust throughout a smart grid is temporal and dynamically varies according to measured states, it is possible to accurately formulate communications and service level strategies based on such trust measurements. Utilizing an effective set of machine learning and statistical methods, it is shown that establishment of trust levels between substations using behavioral pattern analysis is possible. It is also shown that the establishment of such trust can facilitate simple secure communications routing between substations.</details>

***

**_Concepts for Trust Propagation in Knowledge Processing Systems - A Brief Introduction and Overview_**  
Jäger, M.; Nadschläger, S.; Küng, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00212  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>What is ""Trust""? Everybody has a sense of trusting people or institutions, but how is trust defined? The definition of trust always depends on the specific field of research and application, which makes it hard to answer this question in general at a computational level. Thinking of knowledge processing systems we face this question twice. How can we define and calculate trust values for the input data and, more challenging, what is the trust value of the output? Within this paper we consider a binary, a probabilistic, an opinion-space and - our recently developed approach - a weighted arithmetic mean trust model. Then we show ways, how knowledge processing systems can handle these trust values and propagate them through a network of processing steps in a way that the final results are representative. With these presented and developed models, we can give insights to the topic of defining and propagating trust in knowledge processing systems.</details>

***

**_Towards Trustworthy Information Sharing by Creating Cyber Security Alliances_**  
Deljoo, A.; Engers, T. van; Koning, R.; Gommans, L.; Laat, C. de  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00213  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>As attacks are becoming more and more organized, collaboration amongst network domain owners is required next to arranging technical counter measures. Sharing cyber intelligence amongst network domain owners is, therefore, becoming increasingly important. Additionally, networks have grown scale, complexity, and degree of inter-connectedness, such that their protection can often only be guaranteed and financed as a shared effort. In this paper, we introduce the concept of cyber security alliance shaped by different organizations that facilitate the sharing of incident information across them. Creating a cyber security alliance highlights requirements such as: 1) creates and manages trust among the members, 2) introduces a federated governance model, creating common policies, standards for alliance's members, and 3) provides a strong incentive to partners to join an alliance by introducing a common benefit. This paper discusses ongoing research on a social trust model, which helps the members to select the right partner to perform joint tasks, and encourages sharing of incident information. Furthermore, we use the service provider group framework as a way to arrange the establishment of our proposed cyber security alliance that coordinates activities across the alliance to establish trust. We present our social computational trust model and its antecedents.</details>

***

**_Detection and Prevention of Routing Attacks in Internet of Things_**  
Choudhary, S.; Kesswani, N.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00219  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Internet of things (IoT) is the smart network which connects smart objects over the Internet. The Internet is untrusted and unreliable network and thus IoT network is vulnerable to different kind of attacks. Conventional encryption and authentication techniques sometimes fail on IoT based network and intrusion may succeed to destroy the network. So, it is necessary to design intrusion detection system for such network. In our paper, we detect routing attacks such as sinkhole and selective forwarding. We have also tried to prevent our network from these attacks. We designed detection and prevention algorithm, i.e., KMA (Key Match Algorithm) and CBA (Cluster- Based Algorithm) in MatLab simulation environment. We gave two intrusion detection mechanisms and compared their results as well. True positive intrusion detection rate for our work is between 50% to 80% with KMA and 76% to 96% with CBA algorithm.</details>

***

**_UCAM: Usage, Communication and Access Monitoring Based Detection System for IoT Botnets_**  
Sajjad, S. M.; Yousaf, M.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00221  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Botnets are being used for launching Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks causing massive financial loses to the enterprises. With the rise of low-cost, less protected Internet of Things (IoT) devices the likelihood of harm from botnets have also increased. Open sourcing the source code of Mirai IoT malware has provided the foundation step for the development and subsequent launch of variants of Mirai IoT botnets. Detecting such kind of threats is essential for the smooth operation of the Internet. Such security measures are basic requirements for the establishment of user trust on the Internet of Things devices. This paper presents UCAM: Usage, Communication and Access Monitoring Based Botnets Detection System for IoT. The proposed solution has three main components i.e. descriptor, monitor and comparator. Descriptor defines Device Usage, Communication and Access policies. Monitor observes the current state of device Usage, Communication and Access. Anomalies are Detected by the Comparator. Results show that the proposed detection system successfully detects Mirai IoT malware.</details>

***

**_Who Would you Like to be Today?: Impersonation by Fake Azure Active Directory Identity Federation_**  
Syynimaa, N.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00232  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Azure Active Directory (AAD) is Microsoft's cloud-based directory and identity management service used by various service providers (SPs). For instance, Microsoft's own Office 365 is utilizing identity management services of AAD. Hundreds of external SPs are also providing services which are supporting AAD identities. Besides cloud-based managed identities, AAD also supports federated identities where authentication is performed by the external identity provider (IdP). Identity federation is based on a trust between SP and IdP. In this paper, we will report a vulnerability in AAD identity federation which enables undetectable identity impersonation. The vulnerability is caused by a design flaw in the trust to IdPs. We will also introduce some methods to detect the exploitation of the vulnerability and provide advice how to limit the risk of exploitation.</details>

***

**_Double-Blind Reputation vs. Intelligent Fake VIP Attacks in Cloud-Assisted Interactions_**  
Konorski, J.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00241  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>We consider a generic model of Client-Server interactions in the presence of Sender and Relay, conceptual agents acting on behalf of Client and Server, respectively, and modeling cloud service providers in the envisaged ""QoS as a Service paradigm"". Client generates objects which Sender tags with demanded QoS level, whereas Relay assigns the QoS level to be provided at Server. To verify an object's right to a QoS level, Relay detects its signature that neither Client nor Sender can modify. Since signature detection is costly, Relay tends to occasionally skip it and trust an object; this prompts Sender to occasionally launch a Fake VIP attack, i.e., demand undue QoS level. In a Stackelberg game setting, Relay employs a trust strategy in the form of a double-blind reputation scheme so as to minimize the signature detection cost and undue QoS provision, anticipating a best-response Fake VIP attack strategy on the part of Sender. We ask whether the double-blind reputation scheme, previously proved resilient to a probabilistic Fake VIP attack strategy, is equally resilient to more intelligent Sender behavior. Two intelligent attack strategies are proposed and analyzed using two-dimensional Markov chains.</details>

***

**_The Blockchain for Domain Based Static Sharding_**  
Yoo, H.; Yim, J.; Kim, S.  
https://doi.org/10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00252  
<details><summary>Abstract</summary>Blockchain is the shared distributed ledger to record the history of transactions. In blockchain network, nodes validate the transactions and reach the consensus on the ordered transactions. The more transactions are happened, the more processing powers of nodes are needed. Shard is introduced to blockchain for processing the multiple transactions in parallel. In this paper, we propose the blockchain for a domain based static sharding. We split a blockchain into multiple shards based on the domain. In each shard, nodes validate the multiple transactions concurrently and keep the shard's ledger separately. With this, it can be processing of low-latency transaction. Also, by changing the composition of committee members that validate blocks dynamically, we can enable the blockchain to be more trust.</details>

***

